
================================================================================
Article Number: 1
TITLE: Apple Vision Pro review one year later: time to exit the preview
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/01/29/apple-vision-pro-review-one-year-later-time-to-exit-the-preview
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple Vision Pro review: one year later It's been a wild year for Apple Vision Pro, if slow, and it's time for Apple to step up and prove it's the future and drive customers, developers, and creators to the platform. Apple Vision Pro continues to be one of Apple's most frustrating yet amazing products it has ever released. It is simultaneously a preview of the future and a stark reminder of Apple's struggle to juggle multiple platforms in the modern era.As it stands today, Apple Vision Pro is enough for me to get most of my work done. It sits in a similar space to where iPad Pro was a few years ago —  almost there.The introduction of Apple Intelligence and it not being on Apple Vision Pro has been a bit of a problem. When editing text, I either need to use the Mac Virtual Display or take off the headset to edit on iPad.The lack of native apps hasn't proven to be a big problem, as many iPad apps are available. If you're a user like me, you'll be happy with the challenge of replicating workflows on the visionOS platform.So, as I look back on the first year of Apple Vision Pro, I want to look forward too, and discuss what Apple needs to make this a possible future in computing. The iPad Pro is still my primary computer, but there are aspects of Apple Vision Pro that keep pulling me back, and I hope more are on the way.Subscribe to AppleInsider on YouTubeSubscribe to AppleInsider on YouTubeIf you'd like to see how I've discussed Apple Vision Pro from pre-launch to today, here's a handy list.
Pre-release: a win for Apple
Early review
One month later
Choosing between Apple Vision Pro and iPad Pro
Six months later
How I get work done
Apple Vision Pro review —  one yearThe iPhone is Apple's bread and butter, so it makes sense to see much of the company's attention on it and not on other products. If iPad users thought Apple's development cycle have been long, Apple Vision Pro is on a whole new level. Apple Vision Pro review: finding a place among the platformsWhen visionOS 2 was revealed in June 2024, it felt like Apple was committed to giving the platform regular updates. However, after that initial run of new features and APIs, Apple has neglected to add anything else to Apple Vision Pro.Developers don't have much incentive to make native apps. Media makers aren't paying attention to the platform unless Apple is footing the bill.All of these things are symptoms of a new product searching for a purpose and market. It doesn't help that Apple Intelligence had to become such a huge priority in 2024 and take all of Apple's attention.That said, every little step forward so far has been in the right direction. The slow global launch means more international developers supporting the platform and more potential customers to address.Every new immersive video, game, or native app is another reason for people to spend the $3,500. However, the time for early adopters is over. Apple needs to make Apple Vision Pro a product for everyone, not just the nerds with expendable income.Apple Vision Pro review —  designMy initial review of Apple Vision Pro pontificated if third-party accessory makers would introduce new and interesting ways to use the product. The short answer is yes, but not quite in the way I was expecting. Apple Vision Pro review: third-party accessories are few and far betweenInstead of offering a range of stylish bands and alternate options, accessory makers chose to focus on different fits. There are now several alternative options to Apple's Dual Loop or Solo Knit headbands, but I always return to the Solo Knit band.Those that tried Apple Vision Pro early commented heavily on its weight and fit. These are the least impactful parts of the product for me.The ski-goggle-like headset can be worn for hours at a time without issue, as long as you've found the right fit. I've never gotten a headache or sore eyes from using Apple Vision Pro.I had no idea what to expect in terms of durability and longevity when I first picked up the Apple Vision Pro in February 2024. It seemed scary to even hold or wear such an expensive device, let alone place it in a case or bag. Apple Vision Pro review: you don't need Apple's marshmallow case for protectionAs the novelty wore off and I inevitably got less careful, I still had no major incident. The closest scare I encountered was pulling the device off of my desk and it hitting the floor —  unscathed.One year in, there aren't any scratches, rips, tears, or other damage. It's basically brand new.Even as much as I've used Apple Vision Pro, I've yet to see any deterioration with the face cushion, light shield, or knit band. These accessories are pricey, so it's good to know they've got some longevity.I canceled my AppleCare after a few months of use. The design has held up well, though you still want to be careful with storage and transport. Apple Vision Pro review: third-party options like the Waterfield Shield Case are excellentApple's Travel Case is hilariously large, so I took to using the Shield Case from Waterfield for more lengthy trips. If I'm just leaving the house for a bit with Apple Vision Pro in tow, the Backpack from Waterfield has been excellent.I expect as Apple Vision Pro continues to sell that we'll see more interesting accessories. I purchased a stand for Apple Vision Pro to sit on when not in use, for example, and it's nice. Though it would be better to see more prominent Apple accessory makers tackle the concept.Apple Vision Pro review —  slow and steady softwareApple Vision Pro is a unique Apple platform in that the user doesn't see the product while it is being used. They certainly feel it, so design is an important part, but the software is almost everything. Apple Vision Pro review: a set of ski goggles competitors are chasingThere is a famous Steve Jobs quote about design: "Design is not just what it looks and feels like. Design is how it works."That is more true for Apple Vision Pro than any other Apple product on the market. The minute you're strapped into the headset, you're greeted with UI paradigms you've never seen before, yet, they just work.The first iteration of visionOS had some obvious problems, like how Control Center was accessed. A lot of my complaints about Apple Vision Pro were addressed with visionOS 2.0. In fact, I'd be hard-pressed to find parts of the system I outright don't like.There are two small annoyances in how the windowing UI works. First, choosing between a UI element in the bottom corner of an app versus the window size adjustment tool can test anyone's patience. Second, windows don't like to line up and sometimes go transparent too aggressively.These minor complaints will likely be addressed in visionOS 3. That said, things are moving a little too slowly. Apple Vision Pro review: window management still needs workApple's other platforms can afford to roll out updates across a year after revealing the expected changes at WWDC. Apple Vision Pro needs much more, much faster.I understand development takes time and there are other priorities, however, there is no excuse as to why Apple Vision Pro can't access basic Apple Intelligence features in 2025. It also calls back to my previous requests for more evangelism from Apple to developers and other creators.Apple's own lack of support for native applications is becoming a serious problem. If visionOS 3.0 doesn't come with way more, if not all, native Apple apps, developers are not going to take the platform seriously.As I've said multiple times before —  Apple needs to be paying developers and creators to bring apps and content to Apple Vision Pro. Apple could inspire others to utilize the platform with plenty of examples of what can be made. Apple Vision Pro review: Virtual Display gets an ultra wide modeEverything surrounding the software and media portions of Apple Vision Pro needs to be accelerated. We did get a few interesting new features like the ultra-wide Virtual Display view, but updates have been limited otherwise.Apple doesn't care much for anniversaries, so don't expect anything to move on this front just yet. WWDC is in June, and visionOS 3.0 will be Apple's chance to reassure owners and potential buyers that they care about the platform.Apple Vision Pro review —  lacking Apple IntelligenceI wanted to carve out this section specifically because it feels like a significant miss. Apple Vision Pro arrived early enough in the year that Apple's AI initiatives were still very early rumors. Apple Vision Pro review: no sign of Apple Intelligence anywhereWhen Apple revealed Apple Intelligence in June 2024, it seemed like an oversight not to mention it during the Apple Vision Pro portion of the keynote. Apple even clarified that Apple Intelligence could run on the M2 chip used in the headset, but building AI for it wasn't a top priority at launch.We're on iOS 18.3 and visionOS 2.3 as of this publication, and there still isn't any sign of Apple Intelligence on Apple Vision Pro. Granted, it is still technically beta software, but my workflows would benefit from its inclusion.One Apple Intelligence feature has had a real impact on my workflows, and that's the Writing Tools Proofread function. It catches the mistakes I need it to without all the cruft of using something like Grammarly.I can't use Writing Tools when working from Apple Vision Pro without involving my Mac mini. I assume Apple will introduce its AI features to the platform later in 2025.Apple Vision Pro review —  glacial media rolloutThe slow rollout of immersive video and lack of interest from Apple's other services' content are also deterrents. By now, Apple should have regular releases on some kind of knowable schedule for new immersive video content, not to mention some kind of 3D or spatial video adaptations of Apple TV+ media. Apple Vision Pro review: still too slow releasing new contentI'm willing to give Apple some grace here. Apple Vision Pro didn't make its public debut until February 2024, so directing Apple TV+, Apple Music, or other portions of its services to make content isn't an overnight endeavor. That said, Apple should be recording live shows, sports events, and more using immersive cameras every chance they get.The fact that the Apple Music Super Bowl Halftime Show didn't have some kind of immersive video component is maddening. There is no point to having all of these products if they're not bothering with synergy.I'm not really trying to watch Ted Lasso in 3D, but films like Greyhound would be amazing with some level of 3D or spatial conversion within key moments. Immersive video still hasn't crossed into full-length TV show territory, but I hope we see something close in 2025.In the meantime, I hope we see more incredible short films like Submerged. Every time Apple can deliver something like that, it'll sell more Apple Vision Pros. Apple Vision Pro review: there is plenty of legacy 3D content for Apple Vision ProThe music-related content has been excellent too. The Concert For One series put out its first episode with RAYE, and it was simply excellent.Apple should be pumping these out almost weekly and advertise them in Apple Music. I understand that editing these kinds of videos together is a lot, but that shouldn't stop Apple.I also rather enjoyed The Weeknd's Open Hearts music video. It had some surreal elements not present in other immersive video content that show how amazing fiction might be for Apple Vision Pro.Apple really needs to step up the game here. There isn't much downside to making as much content as is feasible since it means more for users to interact with after their initial purchase.Using Apple Vision Pro one year laterApple Vision Pro has become a part of my workflow, my office, and my travel gear. It would be my preferred working tool if it had all the features offered by my iPad Pro, but it's not quite there yet. Apple Vision Pro review: another Apple product in my workflowThe hardware isn't where it needs to be to become my everything computer. I look forward to the day I can put an Apple Vision headset on and wear it all day for work and personal use, but we're years away from that.For now, Apple Vision Pro is best used when I expect to buckle down on a single project that'll take many hours to complete —  like this review. I can write the text, create images, and conduct research all without needing to address another computer, other than the Mac mini for Apple Intelligence Proofread of course.If I'm working somewhere else in the house, I'm likely doing it from the iPad Pro in the Magic Keyboard. It's the same setup for when I'm working at a coffee shop.I'm not sure I could bring myself to using Apple Vision Pro in public, except maybe on a flight. There's something about the headset that feels too ostentatious and I don't want undue attention while I work. Apple Vision Pro review: staging this photo was the longest I wore the device in a public spaceI also don't want to make my family feel awkward by wearing the headset for work in the living room. There's something to working out in the real world that is still very important, and Apple Vision Pro can't recreate that, EyeSight or no.When I am using Apple Vision Pro, it is connected to a mechanical keyboard and a Magic Trackpad. The Virtual Display for Mac, iPad apps, and native apps all look crisp and clear.Every time I have to conduct a review of a monitor or some other accessory that exists outside of Apple Vision Pro, I'm reminded of what it replaces. There is a future where someone buying the Apple Vision Pro will never need to buy another monitor.I've never had any issue with the interface paradigms like pinching. Everything feels super natural in a way that is still somewhat surprising to this day.It doesn't matter how short or long a time I use Apple Vision Pro, I always try to scroll by looking and pinching when I'm not wearing it. The gesture is so natural it feels like everything should work that way. Apple Vision Pro review: PSVR 2 game controller support could come laterThat said, Apple desperately needs to adopt third-party VR controller support. While Meta may never bring Beat Saber to the platform, other games would benefit from the haptics and physicality offered by controllers.Gestures are great, but they are empty in games. Playing Job Simulator and Synth Riders works fine, but without any haptics you feel foolish and detached from what you're doing versus what's happening in the game.Controller support could also aid in basic navigation in certain apps. More options are always better, especially when it comes to accessibility.Something I've been experimenting with recently is using the Mac mini to run console emulation not available on Apple Vision Pro while presenting it full screen. The result has been great so far, and I like how many options I have for window size and shape for viewing in Apple Vision Pro. Apple Vision Pro review: I still record podcasts with Apple Vision Pro onWhether I'm gaming using the Virtual Mac display or streaming from my PlayStation 5 locally, I've not run into any major lag issues. My network is highly optimized with mesh Wi-Fi 7 routers and hard-wired nodes, so there's not much opportunity for things to go wrong.I'm still quite bullish on Apple Vision Pro. As it exists today, it's enough and I don't regret my purchase. It's been excellent for work and personal use.However, I'm a tech enthusiast willing to shell out the cash for novel technology that has minimal support. If Apple wants to win anyone else over, something has got to give.Step up or don't botherI've mentioned it throughout this text and my previous reviews, but I'll say it again here. Apple needs to be an evangelist for its platform because it is the only one that can make a difference. Apple Vision Pro review: it shouldn't take Android headsets to increase interest in spatial appsThere should have never been any question about YouTube, Netflix, or other major apps coming to Apple Vision Pro. Apple should have been working with developers and companies, big and small, to ensure everything was coming to Apple Vision Pro at or near launch.The public is about to become a lot more interested in spatial apps and content, but not because of anything Apple did directly. Sure, Samsung's new headset is a near clone of Apple's and the Android XR platform borrows a lot from visionOS, but it will have AI and YouTube at launch.It doesn't help that Apple seems too busy to care about getting its most basic apps ready for the new platform. I understand not having Contacts ready, but there is no excuse for Calendar.It's past time for Apple to get serious, because while users like me are committed to using Apple Vision Pro, it isn't enough. Sure, the market isn't going to respond well to a $3,500 headset, but when the lite version launches for $2,000 in early 2026, customers will need a lot of convincing even then.Despite my criticism, I'm quite happy with how the Apple Vision Pro rollout has gone so far. Apple could have done better, but with everything else going on, at least they got the thing out there. Apple Vision Pro review: Apple needed to release Vision Pro when it did, so apps and accessories could be readySome suggest Apple could have waited a year and released it in its current form with today's media and app selection. However, I don't think it would have made sense to wait because Apple needed input from outside of Apple Park.Year one did its job as an early adopter timeframe. Year two needs to establish a solid foundation for the future of the platform, which includes possible financial success for developers and a large library of immersive video and 3D content.As much as I love Apple Vision Pro, I worry about what will happen if Apple doesn't get more serious about the platform. While I doubt Apple will give up on Apple Vision Pro, as it has sold well enough, I'm worried it'll stagnate until Apple can release a lower-priced, lightweight model.Apple Vision Pro review —  looking to the futureApple Vision Pro is a preview of the next decade or more of Apple computers. The first iteration may have its flaws and a slow start, but it is quite the first attempt with excellent hardware and interface that would take other companies two or three iterations to achieve. Apple Vision Pro review: a preview of Apple's next decade of computingRumors are all over the place when it comes to Apple Vision Pro. I expect it'll go something like what initial timeframes arrived at —  2026 for a lower-priced model and 2027 for the Apple Vision Pro 2.People like to discuss Apple Vision Pro and Apple's future glasses project in the same breath, but they're not quite the same product. These two units, one a VR headset and one AR glasses, will be sold as separate products that both happen to run visionOS.A set of Apple glasses feels inevitable, if far away given how big and bulky Apple Vision Pro is today. However, Apple could release a set of glasses at any point, but don't expect any pair released in the next couple of years to be as sophisticated as Apple Vision Pro.Meta's Ray-Ban smart glasses are just a voice assistant, speaker, and camera without a HUD. While I believe AirPods are a better device for such things, I am interested in the idea of a wearable camera that is attached to my Apple ecosystem.Whatever Apple's plans are in the space, what we have today is quite compelling on its own. However, if Apple ever wants Apple Vision Pro to be for more than tech nerds with expendable income, it needs to step up and show it cares about the longevity of the platform. Apple Vision Pro review: even without a new headset, new Macs bring faster chips to the platformIf someone were to ask me about buying Apple Vision Pro, if I recommended it, I wouldn't hesitate to say yes. It is an excellent headset where certain kinds of work can be done, with several great options for games and entertainment, and everything about it feels futuristic.If you're watching a movie alone, there is nothing else out there that can beat the experience of doing it on Apple Vision Pro with AirPods Pro 2. While $3,500 is expensive, it isn't far from the price of a good entertainment system or desk setup.If you've got the money and are intrigued by Apple Vision Pro, go get one. There's nothing else like it on the market and it'll only get better from here.Apple Vision Pro review —  Pros
Still the best possible hardware for the price
More apps and games arriving, if slowly
There's nothing else on the market that comes close to offering immersive video and 3D movies like this
Good enough to get work done, but...
Apple Vision Pro review —  Cons
... lacks native apps from Apple and third-parties
Slow rollout of features, apps, and native content becoming a problem
Lack of Apple Intelligence in the first year is a big miss
Apple needs to prove it cares about the platform
Rating: 3.5 out of 5Our rating fell from a 4.0 to a 3.5 in the previous six-month review, and the score holds here. Once Apple starts releasing more content regularly, makes more first-party apps native, and helps push for wider developer adoption, the score can go up.Hardware-wise, Apple Vision Pro is a 5 out of 5. I doubt Apple could build a better headset today at this price.How to buy Apple Vision ProOrdering Apple Vision Pro isn't too dissimilar from buying any other Apple product, except it's only available from Apple online and physical Apple Stores. Customers will need to have a few things ready to order, like their prescription, to ensure the ordering process goes smoothly. Apple Vision Pro starts at $3,499 with 256GB of storage. Upgrade the storage to 512GB or 1TB for $200 more at each tier. Optical inserts are $99 for readers and $149 for prescriptions. Apple Vision Pro continues to be one of Apple's most frustrating yet amazing products it has ever released. It is simultaneously a preview of the future and a stark reminder of Apple's struggle to juggle multiple platforms in the modern era. As it stands today, Apple Vision Pro is enough for me to get most of my work done. It sits in a similar space to where iPad Pro was a few years ago —  almost there. The introduction of Apple Intelligence and it not being on Apple Vision Pro has been a bit of a problem. When editing text, I either need to use the Mac Virtual Display or take off the headset to edit on iPad. The lack of native apps hasn't proven to be a big problem, as many iPad apps are available. If you're a user like me, you'll be happy with the challenge of replicating workflows on the visionOS platform. So, as I look back on the first year of Apple Vision Pro, I want to look forward too, and discuss what Apple needs to make this a possible future in computing. The iPad Pro is still my primary computer, but there are aspects of Apple Vision Pro that keep pulling me back, and I hope more are on the way. If you'd like to see how I've discussed Apple Vision Pro from pre-launch to today, here's a handy list. The iPhone is Apple's bread and butter, so it makes sense to see much of the company's attention on it and not on other products. If iPad users thought Apple's development cycle have been long, Apple Vision Pro is on a whole new level. When visionOS 2 was revealed in June 2024, it felt like Apple was committed to giving the platform regular updates. However, after that initial run of new features and APIs, Apple has neglected to add anything else to Apple Vision Pro. Developers don't have much incentive to make native apps. Media makers aren't paying attention to the platform unless Apple is footing the bill. All of these things are symptoms of a new product searching for a purpose and market. It doesn't help that Apple Intelligence had to become such a huge priority in 2024 and take all of Apple's attention. That said, every little step forward so far has been in the right direction. The slow global launch means more international developers supporting the platform and more potential customers to address. Every new immersive video, game, or native app is another reason for people to spend the $3,500. However, the time for early adopters is over. Apple needs to make Apple Vision Pro a product for everyone, not just the nerds with expendable income. My initial review of Apple Vision Pro pontificated if third-party accessory makers would introduce new and interesting ways to use the product. The short answer is yes, but not quite in the way I was expecting. Instead of offering a range of stylish bands and alternate options, accessory makers chose to focus on different fits. There are now several alternative options to Apple's Dual Loop or Solo Knit headbands, but I always return to the Solo Knit band. Those that tried Apple Vision Pro early commented heavily on its weight and fit. These are the least impactful parts of the product for me. The ski-goggle-like headset can be worn for hours at a time without issue, as long as you've found the right fit. I've never gotten a headache or sore eyes from using Apple Vision Pro. I had no idea what to expect in terms of durability and longevity when I first picked up the Apple Vision Pro in February 2024. It seemed scary to even hold or wear such an expensive device, let alone place it in a case or bag. As the novelty wore off and I inevitably got less careful, I still had no major incident. The closest scare I encountered was pulling the device off of my desk and it hitting the floor —  unscathed. One year in, there aren't any scratches, rips, tears, or other damage. It's basically brand new. Even as much as I've used Apple Vision Pro, I've yet to see any deterioration with the face cushion, light shield, or knit band. These accessories are pricey, so it's good to know they've got some longevity. I canceled my AppleCare after a few months of use. The design has held up well, though you still want to be careful with storage and transport. Apple's Travel Case is hilariously large, so I took to using the Shield Case from Waterfield for more lengthy trips. If I'm just leaving the house for a bit with Apple Vision Pro in tow, the Backpack from Waterfield has been excellent. I expect as Apple Vision Pro continues to sell that we'll see more interesting accessories. I purchased a stand for Apple Vision Pro to sit on when not in use, for example, and it's nice. Though it would be better to see more prominent Apple accessory makers tackle the concept. Apple Vision Pro is a unique Apple platform in that the user doesn't see the product while it is being used. They certainly feel it, so design is an important part, but the software is almost everything. There is a famous Steve Jobs quote about design: "Design is not just what it looks and feels like. Design is how it works." That is more true for Apple Vision Pro than any other Apple product on the market. The minute you're strapped into the headset, you're greeted with UI paradigms you've never seen before, yet, they just work. The first iteration of visionOS had some obvious problems, like how Control Center was accessed. A lot of my complaints about Apple Vision Pro were addressed with visionOS 2.0. In fact, I'd be hard-pressed to find parts of the system I outright don't like. There are two small annoyances in how the windowing UI works. First, choosing between a UI element in the bottom corner of an app versus the window size adjustment tool can test anyone's patience. Second, windows don't like to line up and sometimes go transparent too aggressively. These minor complaints will likely be addressed in visionOS 3. That said, things are moving a little too slowly. Apple's other platforms can afford to roll out updates across a year after revealing the expected changes at WWDC. Apple Vision Pro needs much more, much faster. I understand development takes time and there are other priorities, however, there is no excuse as to why Apple Vision Pro can't access basic Apple Intelligence features in 2025. It also calls back to my previous requests for more evangelism from Apple to developers and other creators. Apple's own lack of support for native applications is becoming a serious problem. If visionOS 3.0 doesn't come with way more, if not all, native Apple apps, developers are not going to take the platform seriously. As I've said multiple times before —  Apple needs to be paying developers and creators to bring apps and content to Apple Vision Pro. Apple could inspire others to utilize the platform with plenty of examples of what can be made. Everything surrounding the software and media portions of Apple Vision Pro needs to be accelerated. We did get a few interesting new features like the ultra-wide Virtual Display view, but updates have been limited otherwise. Apple doesn't care much for anniversaries, so don't expect anything to move on this front just yet. WWDC is in June, and visionOS 3.0 will be Apple's chance to reassure owners and potential buyers that they care about the platform. I wanted to carve out this section specifically because it feels like a significant miss. Apple Vision Pro arrived early enough in the year that Apple's AI initiatives were still very early rumors. When Apple revealed Apple Intelligence in June 2024, it seemed like an oversight not to mention it during the Apple Vision Pro portion of the keynote. Apple even clarified that Apple Intelligence could run on the M2 chip used in the headset, but building AI for it wasn't a top priority at launch. We're on iOS 18.3 and visionOS 2.3 as of this publication, and there still isn't any sign of Apple Intelligence on Apple Vision Pro. Granted, it is still technically beta software, but my workflows would benefit from its inclusion. One Apple Intelligence feature has had a real impact on my workflows, and that's the Writing Tools Proofread function. It catches the mistakes I need it to without all the cruft of using something like Grammarly. I can't use Writing Tools when working from Apple Vision Pro without involving my Mac mini. I assume Apple will introduce its AI features to the platform later in 2025. The slow rollout of immersive video and lack of interest from Apple's other services' content are also deterrents. By now, Apple should have regular releases on some kind of knowable schedule for new immersive video content, not to mention some kind of 3D or spatial video adaptations of Apple TV+ media. I'm willing to give Apple some grace here. Apple Vision Pro didn't make its public debut until February 2024, so directing Apple TV+, Apple Music, or other portions of its services to make content isn't an overnight endeavor. That said, Apple should be recording live shows, sports events, and more using immersive cameras every chance they get. The fact that the Apple Music Super Bowl Halftime Show didn't have some kind of immersive video component is maddening. There is no point to having all of these products if they're not bothering with synergy. I'm not really trying to watch Ted Lasso in 3D, but films like Greyhound would be amazing with some level of 3D or spatial conversion within key moments. Immersive video still hasn't crossed into full-length TV show territory, but I hope we see something close in 2025. In the meantime, I hope we see more incredible short films like Submerged. Every time Apple can deliver something like that, it'll sell more Apple Vision Pros. The music-related content has been excellent too. The Concert For One series put out its first episode with RAYE, and it was simply excellent. Apple should be pumping these out almost weekly and advertise them in Apple Music. I understand that editing these kinds of videos together is a lot, but that shouldn't stop Apple. I also rather enjoyed The Weeknd's Open Hearts music video. It had some surreal elements not present in other immersive video content that show how amazing fiction might be for Apple Vision Pro. Apple really needs to step up the game here. There isn't much downside to making as much content as is feasible since it means more for users to interact with after their initial purchase. Apple Vision Pro has become a part of my workflow, my office, and my travel gear. It would be my preferred working tool if it had all the features offered by my iPad Pro, but it's not quite there yet. The hardware isn't where it needs to be to become my everything computer. I look forward to the day I can put an Apple Vision headset on and wear it all day for work and personal use, but we're years away from that. For now, Apple Vision Pro is best used when I expect to buckle down on a single project that'll take many hours to complete —  like this review. I can write the text, create images, and conduct research all without needing to address another computer, other than the Mac mini for Apple Intelligence Proofread of course. If I'm working somewhere else in the house, I'm likely doing it from the iPad Pro in the Magic Keyboard. It's the same setup for when I'm working at a coffee shop. I'm not sure I could bring myself to using Apple Vision Pro in public, except maybe on a flight. There's something about the headset that feels too ostentatious and I don't want undue attention while I work. I also don't want to make my family feel awkward by wearing the headset for work in the living room. There's something to working out in the real world that is still very important, and Apple Vision Pro can't recreate that, EyeSight or no. When I am using Apple Vision Pro, it is connected to a mechanical keyboard and a Magic Trackpad. The Virtual Display for Mac, iPad apps, and native apps all look crisp and clear. Every time I have to conduct a review of a monitor or some other accessory that exists outside of Apple Vision Pro, I'm reminded of what it replaces. There is a future where someone buying the Apple Vision Pro will never need to buy another monitor. I've never had any issue with the interface paradigms like pinching. Everything feels super natural in a way that is still somewhat surprising to this day. It doesn't matter how short or long a time I use Apple Vision Pro, I always try to scroll by looking and pinching when I'm not wearing it. The gesture is so natural it feels like everything should work that way. That said, Apple desperately needs to adopt third-party VR controller support. While Meta may never bring Beat Saber to the platform, other games would benefit from the haptics and physicality offered by controllers. Gestures are great, but they are empty in games. Playing Job Simulator and Synth Riders works fine, but without any haptics you feel foolish and detached from what you're doing versus what's happening in the game. Controller support could also aid in basic navigation in certain apps. More options are always better, especially when it comes to accessibility. Something I've been experimenting with recently is using the Mac mini to run console emulation not available on Apple Vision Pro while presenting it full screen. The result has been great so far, and I like how many options I have for window size and shape for viewing in Apple Vision Pro. Whether I'm gaming using the Virtual Mac display or streaming from my PlayStation 5 locally, I've not run into any major lag issues. My network is highly optimized with mesh Wi-Fi 7 routers and hard-wired nodes, so there's not much opportunity for things to go wrong. I'm still quite bullish on Apple Vision Pro. As it exists today, it's enough and I don't regret my purchase. It's been excellent for work and personal use. However, I'm a tech enthusiast willing to shell out the cash for novel technology that has minimal support. If Apple wants to win anyone else over, something has got to give. I've mentioned it throughout this text and my previous reviews, but I'll say it again here. Apple needs to be an evangelist for its platform because it is the only one that can make a difference. There should have never been any question about YouTube, Netflix, or other major apps coming to Apple Vision Pro. Apple should have been working with developers and companies, big and small, to ensure everything was coming to Apple Vision Pro at or near launch. The public is about to become a lot more interested in spatial apps and content, but not because of anything Apple did directly. Sure, Samsung's new headset is a near clone of Apple's and the Android XR platform borrows a lot from visionOS, but it will have AI and YouTube at launch. It doesn't help that Apple seems too busy to care about getting its most basic apps ready for the new platform. I understand not having Contacts ready, but there is no excuse for Calendar. It's past time for Apple to get serious, because while users like me are committed to using Apple Vision Pro, it isn't enough. Sure, the market isn't going to respond well to a $3,500 headset, but when the lite version launches for $2,000 in early 2026, customers will need a lot of convincing even then. Despite my criticism, I'm quite happy with how the Apple Vision Pro rollout has gone so far. Apple could have done better, but with everything else going on, at least they got the thing out there. Some suggest Apple could have waited a year and released it in its current form with today's media and app selection. However, I don't think it would have made sense to wait because Apple needed input from outside of Apple Park. Year one did its job as an early adopter timeframe. Year two needs to establish a solid foundation for the future of the platform, which includes possible financial success for developers and a large library of immersive video and 3D content. As much as I love Apple Vision Pro, I worry about what will happen if Apple doesn't get more serious about the platform. While I doubt Apple will give up on Apple Vision Pro, as it has sold well enough, I'm worried it'll stagnate until Apple can release a lower-priced, lightweight model. Apple Vision Pro is a preview of the next decade or more of Apple computers. The first iteration may have its flaws and a slow start, but it is quite the first attempt with excellent hardware and interface that would take other companies two or three iterations to achieve. Rumors are all over the place when it comes to Apple Vision Pro. I expect it'll go something like what initial timeframes arrived at —  2026 for a lower-priced model and 2027 for the Apple Vision Pro 2. People like to discuss Apple Vision Pro and Apple's future glasses project in the same breath, but they're not quite the same product. These two units, one a VR headset and one AR glasses, will be sold as separate products that both happen to run visionOS. A set of Apple glasses feels inevitable, if far away given how big and bulky Apple Vision Pro is today. However, Apple could release a set of glasses at any point, but don't expect any pair released in the next couple of years to be as sophisticated as Apple Vision Pro. Meta's Ray-Ban smart glasses are just a voice assistant, speaker, and camera without a HUD. While I believe AirPods are a better device for such things, I am interested in the idea of a wearable camera that is attached to my Apple ecosystem. Whatever Apple's plans are in the space, what we have today is quite compelling on its own. However, if Apple ever wants Apple Vision Pro to be for more than tech nerds with expendable income, it needs to step up and show it cares about the longevity of the platform. If someone were to ask me about buying Apple Vision Pro, if I recommended it, I wouldn't hesitate to say yes. It is an excellent headset where certain kinds of work can be done, with several great options for games and entertainment, and everything about it feels futuristic. If you're watching a movie alone, there is nothing else out there that can beat the experience of doing it on Apple Vision Pro with AirPods Pro 2. While $3,500 is expensive, it isn't far from the price of a good entertainment system or desk setup. If you've got the money and are intrigued by Apple Vision Pro, go get one. There's nothing else like it on the market and it'll only get better from here. Our rating fell from a 4.0 to a 3.5 in the previous six-month review, and the score holds here. Once Apple starts releasing more content regularly, makes more first-party apps native, and helps push for wider developer adoption, the score can go up. Hardware-wise, Apple Vision Pro is a 5 out of 5. I doubt Apple could build a better headset today at this price. Ordering Apple Vision Pro isn't too dissimilar from buying any other Apple product, except it's only available from Apple online and physical Apple Stores. Customers will need to have a few things ready to order, like their prescription, to ensure the ordering process goes smoothly. Apple Vision Pro starts at $3,499 with 256GB of storage. Upgrade the storage to 512GB or 1TB for $200 more at each tier. Optical inserts are $99 for readers and $149 for prescriptions.  Wesley Hilliard served ten years as a Nuclear Power Electrician in the US Navy, then jumped careers in 2019. Today, he is Assistant Editor, Podcast Cohost, SEO Specialist, and Social Media Manager for AppleInsider. You’re lucky that you don’t have any issues with the weight. I’ve tried at least ten different iterations of the face cushions and none have been able to make it where I can wear the AVP for longer than a couple hours. It’s not so simple to do this either. I’ve had to buy them, try them on for a week or so and return them. Then repeat the process. I’ve even bought third party head gear hoping it would help. I’ve found a few but they just transfer the weight from my eyes to my forehead. I only use it for watching media because of this, as media usually is about 2 to 3 hours, the max before my face hurts too much. You’re lucky that you don’t have any issues with the weight. I’ve tried at least ten different iterations of the face cushions and none have been able to make it where I can wear the AVP for longer than a couple hours. It’s not so simple to do this either. I’ve had to buy them, try them on for a week or so and return them. Then repeat the process. I’ve even bought third party head gear hoping it would help. I’ve found a few but they just transfer the weight from my eyes to my forehead. I only use it for watching media because of this, as media usually is about 2 to 3 hours, the max before my face hurts too much. I have never seen anyone wearing one. I have never seen anyone wearing one. mikethemartian said:
I have never seen anyone wearing one.For the Vision Pro to go mainstream Apple will need; ContentComfortable Size PriceUse caseNot necessarily in that order. Everyone understands phones, computers, earbuds, tablets, TVs, cameras, watches. Like mikethemartian said, he has never seen anyone wear it. I would addd even Not even in an Apple store. Personally I don't see this as a viable consumer product. I certainly can see it as a very useful product in hospitals, labs, industry etc. etc. There is no question that Apple created the ultimate XR that if anyone would want one that's the one they would get. But even at a price of a base phone there s just no consumer market for this. Not even Meta despite years of plugging Quest at a couple hundred dollars could turn this into a viable mainstream product. Not everything that tech creates has a market. The tech graveyard is littered with products that never made it. Just look at Google. Two hundred plus flops and counting. The next aimless pursuit is smart glasses running in conjunction with the phone. Forget it.What we need is a Steve Jobs to dream up something new that adds value and functionality and not just a lateral device that sits on top of one's face and isolates us from the world around us. The buzz now is AI. Let's see how this pans out. For the Vision Pro to go mainstream Apple will need; Not necessarily in that order. Everyone understands phones, computers, earbuds, tablets, TVs, cameras, watches. Like mikethemartian said, he has never seen anyone wear it. I would addd even Not even in an Apple store. Personally I don't see this as a viable consumer product. I certainly can see it as a very useful product in hospitals, labs, industry etc. etc. There is no question that Apple created the ultimate XR that if anyone would want one that's the one they would get. But even at a price of a base phone there s just no consumer market for this. Not even Meta despite years of plugging Quest at a couple hundred dollars could turn this into a viable mainstream product. Not everything that tech creates has a market. The tech graveyard is littered with products that never made it. Just look at Google. Two hundred plus flops and counting. The next aimless pursuit is smart glasses running in conjunction with the phone. Forget it.What we need is a Steve Jobs to dream up something new that adds value and functionality and not just a lateral device that sits on top of one's face and isolates us from the world around us. The buzz now is AI. Let's see how this pans out. Maybe Apple Vision Pro’s lack of response, is the market saying ‘we only respond when it’s something we need,’ Maybe Apple Vision Pro’s lack of response, is the market saying ‘we only respond when it’s something we need,’ Pema said:

mikethemartian said:
I have never seen anyone wearing one.Not everything that tech creates has a market. The tech graveyard is littered with products that never made it. Just look at Google. Two hundred plus flops and counting. The next aimless pursuit is smart glasses running in conjunction with the phone. Forget it.

I disagree. Apple Vision Pro is a really well done minimum viable product. While it is priced out of the range of most consumers, it is already an incredible tool for getting work done in a new way. A smaller, lighter, less expensive version will be killer.Walking around with Apple Vision Pro on and seeing UI floating in your real space is a wild experience. AR glasses that work properly will better realize this.I don't think phones are going anywhere, but I do think Apple Vision Pro, glasses, and these paradigms are a future people will embrace when they are more mass produced at a better price. The use case is there. The tech exists. This isn't some failed tech demo. Apple's competitors are already rushing to replicate it.I'm excited for what's next. I disagree. Apple Vision Pro is a really well done minimum viable product. While it is priced out of the range of most consumers, it is already an incredible tool for getting work done in a new way. A smaller, lighter, less expensive version will be killer. UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. Apple's M4 MacBook Air is more powerful than ever, but the MacBook Pro still dominates the premium laptop market. Apple has released a new firmware version for its iconic MagSafe charger, though there are currently no details as to what the update contains. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 2
TITLE: M4 MacBook Air review roundup: Welcome upgrade, but no surprises
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/03/11/m4-macbook-air-review-roundup-welcome-upgrade-but-no-surprises
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. New blue color in M4 MacBook Air, photo credit Apple The first hands-on reviews of the new MacBook Air with M4 processor have appeared, and so has a consensus that it's a worthy but not special upgrade. Given that the previous model, the M3 MacBook Air was described by AppleInsider as the best Mac for most people, its M4 update was never likely to tarnish that reputation. Especially not since the new edition comes in at $100 cheaper than the 2024 model.So across the board, there is a lot of praise for the new MacBook Air. It is certainly a good buy and it appears to remain the sweet spot in Apple's lineup.But just as with the first reviews of the newest iPad Air updates, no one is claiming the new MacBook Air is dramatic. All of the reviews recommend it, except that none of the reviews say it's worth upgrading to from the previous M3 model.Familiar and does the jobGizmodo describes the new MacBook Air as "like slipping into a warm pair of your favorite pajamas." After listing specifications and the site's own testing figures, the review has most to say about the color."I have tipped over the edge of delirium staring at Apple's latest laptop refresh in different lights, hoping to determine its actual hue," writes Kyle Barr. "The latest MacBook Air colorway is not 'Sky Blue,' as Apple intended... If you compare it to a cloudless sky on a bright, sunny day, at most, it's a cool gray color with a bare hint of blue.""The Apple MacBook Air M4 is a fast, quality productivity machine and it now starts at its lowest base price," concludes the review. "I just wish it were more blue."On YouTube, iJustine also devotes time to the color, but she's far more enamored of it. "Wow, this color is just so stunning," she saysSubscribe to AppleInsider on YouTubeSubscribe to AppleInsider on YouTubeCNET is possibly even a bit more enthusiastic, to an extent, beginning its review with "still fantastic, even if not much has changed.WhereasWired chiefly summarizes the new MacBook Air by saying "this lightweight machine comes equipped with a bit more power and some necessary improvements, all for a more affordable price."Perfect sizeNo reviews so far are negative, but Laptop Magazine is among the most gushing. "[It] may look like its predecessor, but a powerful new chip, an excellent new webcam, and a lower price make it a worthy upgrade."This review even describes the new 15-inch MacBook Air as potentially being in "the Goldilocks zone" for laptop buyers, "a perfect size."Perhaps the one review that most sums up all of the opinions about the new MacBook Air is the one by The Verge. "Small improvements and a price reduction go a long way for the MacBook Air and Macs as a whole," it says.The new M4 MacBook Air is available to preorder now, and will be shipping —  and in Apple Stores —  from March 12, 2025. It comes in two sizes, with 13-inch and 15-inch versions. The 13-inch MacBook Air starts at $999, and the 15-inch model starts at $1,199. Given that the previous model, the M3 MacBook Air was described by AppleInsider as the best Mac for most people, its M4 update was never likely to tarnish that reputation. Especially not since the new edition comes in at $100 cheaper than the 2024 model. So across the board, there is a lot of praise for the new MacBook Air. It is certainly a good buy and it appears to remain the sweet spot in Apple's lineup. But just as with the first reviews of the newest iPad Air updates, no one is claiming the new MacBook Air is dramatic. All of the reviews recommend it, except that none of the reviews say it's worth upgrading to from the previous M3 model. Gizmodo describes the new MacBook Air as "like slipping into a warm pair of your favorite pajamas." After listing specifications and the site's own testing figures, the review has most to say about the color. "I have tipped over the edge of delirium staring at Apple's latest laptop refresh in different lights, hoping to determine its actual hue," writes Kyle Barr. "The latest MacBook Air colorway is not 'Sky Blue,' as Apple intended... If you compare it to a cloudless sky on a bright, sunny day, at most, it's a cool gray color with a bare hint of blue." "The Apple MacBook Air M4 is a fast, quality productivity machine and it now starts at its lowest base price," concludes the review. "I just wish it were more blue." On YouTube, iJustine also devotes time to the color, but she's far more enamored of it. "Wow, this color is just so stunning," she says CNET is possibly even a bit more enthusiastic, to an extent, beginning its review with "still fantastic, even if not much has changed. WhereasWired chiefly summarizes the new MacBook Air by saying "this lightweight machine comes equipped with a bit more power and some necessary improvements, all for a more affordable price." No reviews so far are negative, but Laptop Magazine is among the most gushing. "[It] may look like its predecessor, but a powerful new chip, an excellent new webcam, and a lower price make it a worthy upgrade." This review even describes the new 15-inch MacBook Air as potentially being in "the Goldilocks zone" for laptop buyers, "a perfect size." Perhaps the one review that most sums up all of the opinions about the new MacBook Air is the one by The Verge. "Small improvements and a price reduction go a long way for the MacBook Air and Macs as a whole," it says. The new M4 MacBook Air is available to preorder now, and will be shipping —  and in Apple Stores —  from March 12, 2025. It comes in two sizes, with 13-inch and 15-inch versions. The 13-inch MacBook Air starts at $999, and the 15-inch model starts at $1,199.  William Gallagher has 30 years of experience between the BBC and AppleInsider discussing Apple technology. Outside of AppleInsider, he's best known for writing Doctor Who radio dramas for BBC/Big Finish, and is the De... UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. Apple's M4 MacBook Air is more powerful than ever, but the MacBook Pro still dominates the premium laptop market. Apple has released a new firmware version for its iconic MagSafe charger, though there are currently no details as to what the update contains. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 3
TITLE: iPhone 16e review: All the bells, none of the whistles on this battery-heavy device
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/03/12/iphone-16e-review-all-the-bells-none-of-the-whistles-on-this-battery-heavy-device
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. iPhone 16e review: Apple's new affordable iPhone Apple delivered a new addition to its iPhone lineup with the iPhone 16e. It's a flagship device with the core iPhone experience at a lower price tag, but it won't be for everybody. Many users were hoping to see a new iPhone SE 4 in the spring of 2025. Instead, Apple dropped the iPhone 16e.It's been divisive in its short time on the market, as users rebel against its perceived high price tag.We've been testing it out and while there weren't any big surprises, we were pleasantly surprised with Apple's newest offering.iPhone 16e review: A new type of iPhoneIt's funny to look at the iPhone 16e, seeing what looks almost exactly like an iPhone 14 mixed with an iPhone 16, but to call it a new type of iPhone.But in our eyes, that's exactly what it is. It isn't as affordable as the iPhone SE used to be but slightly more affordable than a full iPhone 16. iPhone 16e review: iPhone 16e, iPhone 16, and iPhone 16 ProIt's essentially the fifth member of the iPhone 16 family, targeting light users and converters.The frame is mostly iPhone 16, with matte aluminum sides in both black and white. The back is glass to allow for wireless charging.There is no Camera Control —  that's still exclusive to the iPhone 16 and up —  but there is an Action Button located above the volume toggles. iPhone 16e review: iPhone 16e uses USB-C instead of LightningThe bottom is outfitted with USB-C, finally replacing the last iPhone with Lightning.If you compare it to the iPhone SE, you'll notice the much more expansive, edge-to-edge, 6.1-inch display. It excises the Home button for Face ID, which lives in the notch at the top.

iPhone 16e


       Apple's iPhone 16e has a 6.1-inch OLED Super Retina XDR display and supports Apple Intelligence.
    


Buy at AT&T


Buy at T-Mobile


Buy at Best Buy

iPhone 16e review: Internals and the C1While the notch may look a little dated, the internals are quite modern. It has Apple's latest A18 chip, a larger battery, and Apple's first in-house modem —  the C1.Our model is outfitted with 128GB of storage, though 256GB and 512GB are also options. We're glad Apple is now offering that higher 512GB capacity as it was sorely needed.The AA8 chip has the same 6-core CPU as the iPhone 16 with two performance and four efficiency cores. The GPU is one-core shy with only four cores.While this didn't make much of a difference to us, any mobile gamer watching frame rates will notice its shortcomings on more intensive games like Assassin's Creed. The battery is larger thanks to the smaller camera module —  more on that soon —  and it's worth it. You get an impressive 26 hours of video playback time. iPhone 16e review: A great budget device, though we miss MagSafeWhile swapping out our iPhone 16 Pro for the iPhone 16e this week, we've noticed how much longer the phone lasts. It's impressive, thanks to that larger battery, plus the power-efficient C1 modem.Speaking of which, the C1 is one of the coolest pieces of tech to deploy in an iPhone. As Apple's first attempt, there are some missing features but it's a great start.For instance, there's no mmWave 5G and its speed doesn't blow away Qualcomm's by any means. But mmWave is still fairly scarce and speed will only get better.It does have other tricks though. It's able to talk directly to the processor.The C1 modem can tell the processor the network is congested. In return, the processor can tell the modem which data to prioritize, making the phone feel faster to the user, even if it technically isn't.iPhone 16e review: One cut too manyThe lack of mmWave isn't the only cut on the iPhone 16e when compared to the iPhone 16. Many other "nice to have" features also were on the chopping block.You won't find Thread for smart home control, ultra Wideband for tracking down AirTag or opening doors, ProMotion 120Hz refresh rate, or even the Dynamic Island.None of these are essential though. The only cut that hurt, was MagSafe.MagSafe is Apple's magnetic connection system where you can attach wallets, car chargers, mounts, grips, desk chargers, and more to the back of your iPhone.Apple says that this is OK as most users of this device will typically just plug it in and let it charge overnight and that's it. It's hard to argue with that at face value.At the same time, we see more and more people using MagSafe accessories. Our local Apple Store offers only MagSafe chargers that are incompatible with this phone.While yes, you can use a MagSafe-compatible case, it's important to mention that even Apple's own case doesn't include the requisite magnets.This is just one cut we wish Apple didn't make.iPhone 16e review: A curious cameraApple is once more talking about its Fusion camera on the back of the iPhone 16e. It's a single, 48MP lens with 2X "optical quality" zoom.When compared to the iPhone 16, the iPhone 16e does have a smaller sensor. You'll notice this most in low-light situations. iPhone 16e review: There is a single 48MP camera on iPhone 16eComing from the most capable iPhone 16 Pro, the iPhone 16e made us more considerate when taking pictures. We were more thoughtful about the framing and aware of its limitations.Users shouldn't have to do that though. Frankly, just as with the lack of ProMotion, most users aren't going to notice these camera limitations.Anyone who is pixel-peeping in low light probably would have been better served with the iPhone 16 or even the iPhone 16 Pro.The photos taken by the iPhone 16e do look great, are well-balanced, and look markedly better than what we saw on the iPhone SE.Nothing is amazing about it but nothing is overwhelmingly bad, either.A few other notable omissions though include the lack of Action Mode and Cinematic Mode.iPhone 16e review: Living with Apple's budget phoneThe iPhone 16e isn't for us. Not this writer anyway.But we wanted to give it a fair shot and gave up our iPhone 16 Pro for the past week to largely test this out.In many cases, it impressed us and its focus on the core iPhone experience made us feel like we did not need to pay nearly as much for the pro model.It does everything an iPhone should do from taking great photos to controlling our smart home to ordering dinner.Only on occasion did we miss certain features that we'd become accustomed to. Like the Live Activities living in the Dynamic Island.We did miss the Camera Control too. Even just to open the Camera app. iPhone 16e review: Using the Action Button to run different shortcuts and actionsThat said, the Action Button is great. We've been experimenting with different uses for the Action Button for a while now and it's still very handy.We've set it to show our current blood sugar value, run the goodnight scene in our home, and even open our Amazon orders. There are a lot of options and when you remember it's there, it starts to become a useful tool.Battery life, again, was top-notch and has quickly made us jealous. That may be the headline feature of this device.We should also throw in a mention of Apple Intelligence too. There's no next-gen Siri, as it was delayed, but the rest is here.You have Image Playgrounds to make images, Genmoji to create your own emoji characters, Writing Tools to improve your composition, ChatGPT integration into Siri, and Clean Up to remove objects from photos. iPhone 16e review: You can set the Action Button to run Visual IntelligenceThey all work about as well as you'd expect and they're certainly going to improve with time. We wouldn't buy the iPhone 16e for these features, but we're glad they are there and are a priority for Apple.iPhone 16e review: Should you buy it?Here's where we stand. The iPhone 16e is a solid iPhone.There's a case to be made that too many things were trimmed, but this likely won't impact its sales by any measurable amount.This is the iPhone for when someone walks into a carrier or Apple Store and says "I want your most affordable iPhone." Think about an Android user making the switch, something for a child, or perhaps your grandparents. iPhone 16e review: The new budget phone fits right into our lifeWith them as the target audience, the iPhone 16e will sell exceptionally well, especially with any carrier subsidies or payment plans. It hits all the right notes.Not to mention, with the A18 chip, it has a long lifespan ahead of it.The users this phone is aimed at will care about price, battery, and overall lifespan —  not Thread, UWB, or the Dynamic Island. And that's what Apple nailed.iPhone 16e review: ProsAmazing battery life
Modern form factor with current internals
Custom C1 modem
More affordable than iPhone 16
Finally ditches Home Button and Lightning
Distilled to core iPhone experience
Support for Apple Intelligence, if limited at launchiPhone 16e review: ConsStill fairly expensive compared to budget Android devices
MagSafe omission feels like too much
48MP camera smaller than iPhone 16 with less featuresiPhone 16e rating: 4 out of 5Where to buy Apple's iPhone 16eThe best way to save on Apple's iPhone 16e is to check out wireless carrier deals, with the service providers offering incentives via bill credits and trade-in promotions that can sometimes bring the device down to free (applicable taxes do still apply).You can hop straight to the carrier offers below. We also cover the best iPhone deals in our dedicated roundup.Save on iPhones at wireless carriers
AT&T Wireless: Grab an iPhone for as low as $0 per month* with bill credits and trade-in offers
Verizon: iPhones start at $0 per month* with incentives
T-Mobile: Get up to 50% off* iPhones
*Terms and conditions pertaining to each offer can be found on the specific carrier's site.
And if you want to pick up a new case for your iPhone, check out our roundup of the best iPhone 16e cases that incorporate MagSafe. Many users were hoping to see a new iPhone SE 4 in the spring of 2025. Instead, Apple dropped the iPhone 16e. It's been divisive in its short time on the market, as users rebel against its perceived high price tag. We've been testing it out and while there weren't any big surprises, we were pleasantly surprised with Apple's newest offering. It's funny to look at the iPhone 16e, seeing what looks almost exactly like an iPhone 14 mixed with an iPhone 16, but to call it a new type of iPhone. But in our eyes, that's exactly what it is. It isn't as affordable as the iPhone SE used to be but slightly more affordable than a full iPhone 16. It's essentially the fifth member of the iPhone 16 family, targeting light users and converters. The frame is mostly iPhone 16, with matte aluminum sides in both black and white. The back is glass to allow for wireless charging. There is no Camera Control —  that's still exclusive to the iPhone 16 and up —  but there is an Action Button located above the volume toggles. The bottom is outfitted with USB-C, finally replacing the last iPhone with Lightning. If you compare it to the iPhone SE, you'll notice the much more expansive, edge-to-edge, 6.1-inch display. It excises the Home button for Face ID, which lives in the notch at the top. While the notch may look a little dated, the internals are quite modern. It has Apple's latest A18 chip, a larger battery, and Apple's first in-house modem —  the C1. Our model is outfitted with 128GB of storage, though 256GB and 512GB are also options. We're glad Apple is now offering that higher 512GB capacity as it was sorely needed. The AA8 chip has the same 6-core CPU as the iPhone 16 with two performance and four efficiency cores. The GPU is one-core shy with only four cores. While this didn't make much of a difference to us, any mobile gamer watching frame rates will notice its shortcomings on more intensive games like Assassin's Creed. The battery is larger thanks to the smaller camera module —  more on that soon —  and it's worth it. You get an impressive 26 hours of video playback time. While swapping out our iPhone 16 Pro for the iPhone 16e this week, we've noticed how much longer the phone lasts. It's impressive, thanks to that larger battery, plus the power-efficient C1 modem. Speaking of which, the C1 is one of the coolest pieces of tech to deploy in an iPhone. As Apple's first attempt, there are some missing features but it's a great start. For instance, there's no mmWave 5G and its speed doesn't blow away Qualcomm's by any means. But mmWave is still fairly scarce and speed will only get better. It does have other tricks though. It's able to talk directly to the processor. The C1 modem can tell the processor the network is congested. In return, the processor can tell the modem which data to prioritize, making the phone feel faster to the user, even if it technically isn't. The lack of mmWave isn't the only cut on the iPhone 16e when compared to the iPhone 16. Many other "nice to have" features also were on the chopping block. You won't find Thread for smart home control, ultra Wideband for tracking down AirTag or opening doors, ProMotion 120Hz refresh rate, or even the Dynamic Island. None of these are essential though. The only cut that hurt, was MagSafe. MagSafe is Apple's magnetic connection system where you can attach wallets, car chargers, mounts, grips, desk chargers, and more to the back of your iPhone. Apple says that this is OK as most users of this device will typically just plug it in and let it charge overnight and that's it. It's hard to argue with that at face value. At the same time, we see more and more people using MagSafe accessories. Our local Apple Store offers only MagSafe chargers that are incompatible with this phone. While yes, you can use a MagSafe-compatible case, it's important to mention that even Apple's own case doesn't include the requisite magnets. This is just one cut we wish Apple didn't make. Apple is once more talking about its Fusion camera on the back of the iPhone 16e. It's a single, 48MP lens with 2X "optical quality" zoom. When compared to the iPhone 16, the iPhone 16e does have a smaller sensor. You'll notice this most in low-light situations. Coming from the most capable iPhone 16 Pro, the iPhone 16e made us more considerate when taking pictures. We were more thoughtful about the framing and aware of its limitations. Users shouldn't have to do that though. Frankly, just as with the lack of ProMotion, most users aren't going to notice these camera limitations. Anyone who is pixel-peeping in low light probably would have been better served with the iPhone 16 or even the iPhone 16 Pro. The photos taken by the iPhone 16e do look great, are well-balanced, and look markedly better than what we saw on the iPhone SE. Nothing is amazing about it but nothing is overwhelmingly bad, either. A few other notable omissions though include the lack of Action Mode and Cinematic Mode. The iPhone 16e isn't for us. Not this writer anyway. But we wanted to give it a fair shot and gave up our iPhone 16 Pro for the past week to largely test this out. In many cases, it impressed us and its focus on the core iPhone experience made us feel like we did not need to pay nearly as much for the pro model. It does everything an iPhone should do from taking great photos to controlling our smart home to ordering dinner. Only on occasion did we miss certain features that we'd become accustomed to. Like the Live Activities living in the Dynamic Island. We did miss the Camera Control too. Even just to open the Camera app. That said, the Action Button is great. We've been experimenting with different uses for the Action Button for a while now and it's still very handy. We've set it to show our current blood sugar value, run the goodnight scene in our home, and even open our Amazon orders. There are a lot of options and when you remember it's there, it starts to become a useful tool. Battery life, again, was top-notch and has quickly made us jealous. That may be the headline feature of this device. We should also throw in a mention of Apple Intelligence too. There's no next-gen Siri, as it was delayed, but the rest is here. You have Image Playgrounds to make images, Genmoji to create your own emoji characters, Writing Tools to improve your composition, ChatGPT integration into Siri, and Clean Up to remove objects from photos. They all work about as well as you'd expect and they're certainly going to improve with time. We wouldn't buy the iPhone 16e for these features, but we're glad they are there and are a priority for Apple. Here's where we stand. The iPhone 16e is a solid iPhone. There's a case to be made that too many things were trimmed, but this likely won't impact its sales by any measurable amount. This is the iPhone for when someone walks into a carrier or Apple Store and says "I want your most affordable iPhone." Think about an Android user making the switch, something for a child, or perhaps your grandparents. With them as the target audience, the iPhone 16e will sell exceptionally well, especially with any carrier subsidies or payment plans. It hits all the right notes. Not to mention, with the A18 chip, it has a long lifespan ahead of it. The users this phone is aimed at will care about price, battery, and overall lifespan —  not Thread, UWB, or the Dynamic Island. And that's what Apple nailed. The best way to save on Apple's iPhone 16e is to check out wireless carrier deals, with the service providers offering incentives via bill credits and trade-in promotions that can sometimes bring the device down to free (applicable taxes do still apply). You can hop straight to the carrier offers below. We also cover the best iPhone deals in our dedicated roundup. And if you want to pick up a new case for your iPhone, check out our roundup of the best iPhone 16e cases that incorporate MagSafe.  Based in Columbus, Ohio, Andrew O'Hara has spent the last eight years embedded in all aspects of the digital space from leading digital marketing teams to front-end web development and design. He started producing vid... MagSafe isn’t the big loss it’s made out to be.  MagSafe can be added on using a case.   If you like to go naked, then you’ll miss it. Slower Qi charging might be missed but high-power wireless charging unnecessarily heats the battery and phone which degrade battery life.  mmWave just isn’t in enough places to matter unless you live where it is and take advantage of it.   Then you’ll miss it, for sure.  It’s a good iPhone for the price.  It’s just not the best phone. MagSafe isn’t the big loss it’s made out to be.  MagSafe can be added on using a case.   If you like to go naked, then you’ll miss it. Slower Qi charging might be missed but high-power wireless charging unnecessarily heats the battery and phone which degrade battery life.  mmWave just isn’t in enough places to matter unless you live where it is and take advantage of it.   Then you’ll miss it, for sure.  It’s a good iPhone for the price.  It’s just not the best phone. eriamjh said:
MagSafe isn’t the big loss it’s made out to be.  MagSafe can be added on using a case.   If you like to go naked, then you’ll miss it.    

I know people often use “MagSafe” and “wireless charging with magnets” interchangeably, but: MagSafe is a wireless charging standard (a standard that uses magnets). The iPhone 16e does not support MagSafe and a case will not add it. A case with magnets will add.., well, magnets. And that’s it. I know people often use “MagSafe” and “wireless charging with magnets” interchangeably, but: MagSafe is a wireless charging standard (a standard that uses magnets). The iPhone 16e does not support MagSafe and a case will not add it. A case with magnets will add.., well, magnets. And that’s it. The target market is businesses who need their employees to have iPhones to run whatever apps their business depends on, which is underscored by the really good all day and all night battery life. Those businesses will be able to buy at bulk prices yet Apple will be able to discount for them while still making acceptable margin given the bill of materials (especially the C1, which cuts maybe as much as $90 off the BOM). Cell phone carriers will love this as well as they will be able to offer it to their customers as a “true, Apple Intelligence” iPhone 16) and not just an iPhone SE, as a starter to get the customer in the door. Apple will sell this gladly to anyone but the retail price is deliberately chosen to encourage the individual consumer to look again at the next phone on the price ladder. I just don’t understand why none of the reviewers or Wall Street commentators ever manage to grasp Apple’s product and pricing strategy. The target market is businesses who need their employees to have iPhones to run whatever apps their business depends on, which is underscored by the really good all day and all night battery life. Those businesses will be able to buy at bulk prices yet Apple will be able to discount for them while still making acceptable margin given the bill of materials (especially the C1, which cuts maybe as much as $90 off the BOM). Cell phone carriers will love this as well as they will be able to offer it to their customers as a “true, Apple Intelligence” iPhone 16) and not just an iPhone SE, as a starter to get the customer in the door. Apple will sell this gladly to anyone but the retail price is deliberately chosen to encourage the individual consumer to look again at the next phone on the price ladder. I just don’t understand why none of the reviewers or Wall Street commentators ever manage to grasp Apple’s product and pricing strategy. I heard in some podcast the 16e is a play for budget conscious markets (like India where people don't buy phones from the cariers) while still being a premium offering. Not sure about that but if so, some of the choices made does makes sense. I heard in some podcast the 16e is a play for budget conscious markets (like India where people don't buy phones from the cariers) while still being a premium offering. Not sure about that but if so, some of the choices made does makes sense. Apple now has something for everybody! Apple now has something for everybody! UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 4
TITLE: iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16: A new Apple Intelligence-powered entry-level option
URL: https://appleinsider.com/inside/iphone-16e/vs/iphone-16e-vs-iphone-16-a-new-apple-intelligence-powered-entry-level-option
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. iPhone 16e [left], iPhone 16 [right] Last updated 2 weeks ago Apple's update to the iPhone SE adds a new design and Apple Intelligence, as well as a new name: iPhone 16e. Here's how it compares to yesterday's budget option —  the iPhone 16.  Arriving just shy of three years after the third-generation iPhone SE, the newly-rebranded iPhone 16e has arrived as the new entry-level model for consumers. This is a major modernization effort, with a new design and a considerable specifications bump to match modern smartphones. With the introduction of a new low-cost smartphone on Apple's roster, this leaves consumers wondering if they should get it instead of the slightly more expensive iPhone 16. Here's how the two smartphone stablemates match up on paper. Subscribe to AppleInsider on YouTubeSubscribe to AppleInsider on YouTubeiPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - SpecificationsSpecificationsiPhone 16eiPhone 16Price (starting)$599Best iPhone 16e prices$799Best iPhone 16 pricesDimensions (inches)5.78 x 2.82 x 0.315.81 x 2.82 x 0.31Weight (ounces)5.886Side controlsAction ButtonAction Button,Camera ControlProcessorA184-core GPUA185-core GPUStorage128GB, 256GB, 512GB128GB, 256GB, 512GBDisplay type6.1-inch Super Retina XDR 6.1-inch Super Retina XDRResolution2,532 x 1,170 at 460ppi2,556 x 1,179 at 460ppiTrue ToneYesYesBiometricsFace IDFace ID Connectivity5G (Sub-6GHz only),Gigabit-class LTE,Wi-Fi 6,Bluetooth 5.3,NFCEmergency SOS via Satellite,Roadside Assistance via Satellite,USB-C (USB 2)5G (Sub-6GHz and mmWave),Gigabit-class LTE,Wi-Fi 7,Bluetooth 5.3,Second-gen Ultra WidebandNFCEmergency SOS via Satellite,Roadside Assistance via Satellite,USB-C (USB 2),Thread supportRear Cameras48MP Fusion48MP Fusion,12MP Ultra Wide with MacroVideo4K 60fps,4K 60fps HDR with Dolby Vision,1080p 240fps Slo-Mo,Optical image stabilization,4K 60fps,4K 60fps HDR with Dolby Vision,1080p 240fps Slo-Mo,Cinematic Mode,Spatial Video,Macro Video,Sensor-shift optical image stabilization,Action ModeFront Camera12MP TrueDepth,Autofocus12MP TrueDepth,Autofocus Battery Size (Video playback time)Up to 26 hoursUp to 22 hoursWireless ChargingQi 7.5WMagSafe 25WColorsBlack,WhiteBlack,White,Teal,Pink,UltramarineiPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - Physical DimensionsThe incumbent iPhone 16 is a fairly decent-sized smartphone, measuring 5.81 inches long and 2.82 inches wide. At 0.31 inches thick, it's thin enough, but not too thin for its overall footprint. On the weight side, the iPhone 16 is six ounces dead, after shaving off a tiny amount of weight from the iPhone 15. 

iPhone 16


       Apple's iPhone 16 is powered by the A18 chip and is built for Apple Intelligence.
    


Buy at AT&T


Buy at Verizon


Buy at T-Mobile


The iPhone 16e is a tiny bit smaller than the iPhone 16, shorter at 5.78 inches long but equalling the width and thickness at 2.82 inches and 0.31 inches respectively. It's also a tiny bit lighter at 5.88 ounces. When it comes to design, Apple used its standard glass sandwich approach in the iPhone 16, with a metal frame filling. Aerospace aluminum is used in the middle, while the front glass also benefits from Ceramic Shield protection for extra toughness. This design is carried on through with the iPhone 16e, complete with Ceramic Shield at the front.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16: Side-on with the new model. Around the back, Apple updated the iPhone 16's camera bump, departing from the square bump in favor of a slimmer one, complete with a vertical alignment of the cameras. The iPhone 16e doesn't have a bump per se, but it does have one camera that sticks out from the back. Button-wise, the iPhone 16 has the side button to wake the device, volume controls, an Action button, and the new addition, Camera Control. A capacitive button, it can be used like a conventional point-and-shoot control, while also allowing some extra controls by sliding your finger along it. The iPhone 16e does get the Action button, side button, and volume controls, but it falls short in not having Camera Control. Obviously, there's a fair bit of a similarity here when it comes to size. While you may consider the old iPhone SE to typically be the smallest option in the range, the iPhone 16e is now pretty much toe-to-toe in physical presence to the flagship model. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - DisplayThe iPhone 16 has a familiar 6.1-inch OLED Super Retina XDR display. With a resolution of 2,556 by 1,179 pixels, it has a pixel density of 460ppi, which is quite standard for Apple's main smartphones. The iPhone 16e also has a 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR display, complete with OLED as well. However, it has a slightly smaller resolution of 2,532 by 1,170 pixels, while maintaining the 460ppi pixel density.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16: The dreaded notch is back.The OLED screen of the iPhone 16 also has a contrast ratio of 2,000,000:1. Brightness is 1,000 nits for SDR content, 1,600 nits peak for HDR, and up to 2,000 nits for outdoor usage. The iPhone 16e retains the contrast ratio, but the brightness isn't quite as high. The max brightness for typical usage is 800 nits, rising to 1,200 nits of peak brightness for HDR content. The top of the iPhone 16 features the Dynamic Island, which combines smart UI elements and the hole in the display for the cameras to create software camouflage that's a step up from the old and reviled notch. Said notch is back, but on the iPhone 16e. Resting at the top, it doesn't benefit from the UI camouflage of the Dynamic Island at all. Rounding out the display spec lists,  they both includes True Tone, Wide color (P3), Haptic Touch, and a fingerprint-resistant oleophobic coating. Apple's upgraded display for the iPhone 16e is a welcome addition versus the old-style iPhone SE. Even so, it still keeps the iPhone 16's display a little bit better in terms of specifications. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - CamerasThe rear of the iPhone 16 has two cameras, in a bump half the physical size of the previous square version. Alongside the bump is the True Tone flash. The first camera is the 48MP Fusion camera, formerly the "Main," which has an f/1.6 aperture, sensor-shift optical image stabilization, and 100% Focus Pixels. Its party piece is that it can also offer a virtual 2x Telephoto lens. This is simply performed by cropping into the 48MP image until you're left with a 12MP version. This is still an "optical" zoom as it's not manipulating the image area. However, if you want, there's a maximum 10x digital zoom range. The other camera is a 12MP Ultra Wide version, complete with an f/2.4 aperture, offering an effective 2x zoom out, as well as a 120-degree field of view. New for the iPhone 16 is a Macro mode, as well as a new anti-reflective lens coating.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16: The iPhone 16e [left] has one camera but fakes a second. The iPhone 16 [right] has two cameras, but fakes a third. The solitary rear camera on the iPhone 16e is a 48MP Fusion camera, with an f/1.6 aperture. This is mostly the same as the iPhone 16's version, but there's the more typical optical image stabilization in use, not the sensor-shift version.It pulls off the same fake camera trick as the iPhone 16's counterpart, complete with a 2x 12MP crop of the 48MP sensor. As usual, there's the full suite of computational photography tools for both models, including the Photonic Engine and Deep Fusion. There's also Portrait mode with Portrait Lighting, Night Mode, 63MP panoramas, and upgraded Photographic Styles. For stills, there is a difference in that the iPhone 16 is capable of macro photography and Spatial photos, whereas the iPhone 16e is not. Video-wise, the iPhone 16 can deal with 4K 60fps Dolby Vision HDR, 4K 30fps cinematic video stabilization, Action mode at 2.8K 60fps, and 1080p 240fps Slo-mo. Other video features on the iPhone 16 include continuous autofocus, stereo recording, audio zoom, Spatial video Night Mode Time Lapse, and also Time-Lapse with stabilization. The list for the iPhone 16e is oddly similar, with some exceptions. Apple left off Cinematic mode, Action mode, Spatial video, and Macro video recording capabilities. The front camera of the iPhone 16 has a 12MP f/1.9 camera as part of the TrueDepth camera array. There's support for computational photography with the Photonic Engine, Deep Fusion, Smart HDR 5, Portrait mode, Portrait Lighting, Photographic Styles, and Animoji and Memoji. The front camera on the iPhone 16e is exactly the same. Except it's in the notch, not the Dynamic Island.For front camera video, both can record 4K 60Hz Dolby Vision and 120fps 1080p Slo-mo. While both do have cinematic video stabilization at up to 4K, only the iPhone 16 offers a cinematic mode at 4K 30 in Dolby Vision. It's safe to say that two cameras are better than one, and that there are more photography possibilities with the iPhone 16 versus the iPhone 16e. With the exception of a lack of an ultra wide camera and a few modes on the iPhone 16e, they're pretty neck-and-neck on paper. Then again, if photography is a significant feature to you, the Pro models may be a better option. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - Processing and PerformanceThe A18 in the iPhone 16 is a six-core CPU with two performance cores and four efficiency cores. It's accompanied by a five-core GPU as well as a 16-core Neural Engine. That Neural Engine was an upgrade, capable of running ML models twice as fast as the A16 Bionic, and able to run at up to 35 trillion operations per second.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16: Apple Intelligence is a key additionFor the iPhone 16e, Apple uses almost the same A18 chip. You still get the 16-core Neural Engine and the 6-core CPU, but the GPU is only a four-core version. The main reason behind the iPhone 16e's use of the A18 is Apple Intelligence, a feature that requires an A17 Pro at a minimum to function. With this choice, Apple now has a low-budget entry point for consumers to jump on the Apple Intelligence bandwagon and to use them in their lives. At this stage, there are no options to determine how much of a performance difference there is between the two chips, but the difference is unlikely to be that great. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - ConnectivityThe iPhone 16 has support for 5G connectivity in both sub-6GHz and mmWave bands, using a Qualcomm modem. As a backup, there's Gigabit LTE with 4x4 MIMO and carrier aggregation. For the iPhone 16e, Apple has shifted to using its own design of modem. The C1 is Apple's first commercial attempt at the component, and the iPhone 16e is a trial before deciding if it's worthwhile adding to other future products. While brand new, it isn't going to give iPhone 16 cellular speeds, as it only supports sub-6GHz 5G. Gigabit LTE is also present, as is UMTS/HSPA+ and GSM/EDGE. Shifting to nearby connectivity, the iPhone 16 has Wi-Fi 7 support along with Bluetooth 5.3. There's also Ultra Wideband, which can be used to track down lost AirTags and other iPhone 15 handsets. The iPhone 16e steps down to Wi-Fi 6 support, which is still ample enough for most users, but maintains Bluetooth 5.3 and NFC. It does, however, miss out on Ultra Wideband and Thread, so Find My and HomeKit usage will not be as good as the iPhone 16. Physical connectivity in the iPhone 16 is with USB-C, though Apple did decide to stick to USB 2.0 speeds, not newer standards. This means data transfers at up to 480Mbps, rather than up to 10Gbps.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16: The 16e gets the same satellite features as its stablemateUnsurprisingly, the iPhone 16e uses USB-C at the same USB 2.0 speeds. The iPhone 16 has support for GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, QZSS, and BeiDou for navigational support, as well as a digital compass and iBeacon support. This is copied by the iPhone 16e. Speaking of satellites, both the iPhone 16e and the iPhone 16 have Emergency SOS via Satellite as well as Roadside Assistance via Satellite. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - Power and BatteryApple claims the iPhone 16 has a battery capacity allowing up to 22 hours of local video playback and up to 18 hours of streaming video playback. Audio playback can hit up to 80 hours. When it comes to the iPhone 16e, Apple actually says it can do better in terms of battery usage. Local video is up to 26 hours, streamed video grows to 21 hours, and audio playback increases to 90 hours. It's not entirely clear why this is the case at this time, but it is probable that by downgrading or changing some internal components, a byproduct is reduced overall power consumption. To recharge the iPhone 16 or iPhone 16e, you can do so via USB-C to take advantage of fast charging. A 50% charge is possible after about 30 minutes when using a 20W charger or higher. Full wireless charging is available on the iPhone 16, with MagSafe working at up to 25W, with additional support for 15W Qi2 and 7.5W Qi. There is wireless charging on the iPhone 16e, but it's not MagSafe. Instead, there is Qi wireless support, limited to 7.5W. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - Other FeaturesThe biometric security of the iPhone 16 is handled by Face ID, which uses the front TrueDepth camera array. This is also the same for the iPhone 16e, which finally abandons the Touch ID of the iPhone SE for the face-based version. For water and dust resistance, the iPhone 16 and iPhone 16e are rated at IP68. This means they can withstand being submerged at a depth of up to 6 meters (19.7 feet) for up to an hour. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - Capacity, Color, and PricingApple launched the iPhone 16 in three capacities, with the 128GB at $799, 256GB for $899, and 512GB for $1,099. The iPhone 16 launched in Black, White, Pink, Teal, and Ultramarine colorways. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16: The two iPhone 16e colorwaysThe iPhone 16e is sold in the same three capacities,  at $599 for 128GB, $699 for 256GB, and $899 for 512GB. Color options for the iPhone 16e are a bit more limited, with a choice of either Black or White. iPhone 16e vs iPhone 16 - Similar, but notIt's fair to say that what was the iPhone SE line has been given a considerable glow-up. It's been thoroughly modernized, to a degree that it stands pretty much side-by-side with the previous lowest-end model of the current flagship range. You couldn't say that about the old SE, which was always hanging behind the mainline group. What we end up with is an iPhone 16 that's been neutered in a few ways. The screen is ever so marginally smaller and less bright, and it has the notch instead of the more-preferred Dynamic Island. The A18 chip is mostly on-par, but you get one less GPU core in the iPhone 16e instead of the version in the full-fat iPhone 16. The single rear camera isn't entirely that much of a downgrade, as you're only really losing out on the ultra wide shots. That extra camera cropping trick is still present in the 16e. Add in things like the wireless charging differences, Apple's new non-mmWave modem, and no Ultra Wideband, and it's a lot of small downgrades from the defacto iPhone 16 experience. That said, it's a $200 saving if you do accept those small changes. Unless you're extremely picky about your smartphones, there's a lot to like about the iPhone 16e. It's a discount iPhone 16, but more in price than in capability. Where to buy Apple's iPhone 16e and iPhone 16Wireless carriers are offering aggressive incentives on the iPhone 16 ahead of 16e preorders going live, with prices starting at $0 per month for the device. You can find today's best iPhone deals on the 16, 16 Pro and 16 Plus models at Verizon and AT&T below as we await promos for the new iPhone 16e.
AT&T Wireless: Get an iPhone 16 on AT&T with qualifying trade
Verizon Wireless: Get an iPhone 16 on Verizon with eligible trade
*Terms and conditions apply. Please see site for details. Arriving just shy of three years after the third-generation iPhone SE, the newly-rebranded iPhone 16e has arrived as the new entry-level model for consumers. This is a major modernization effort, with a new design and a considerable specifications bump to match modern smartphones. With the introduction of a new low-cost smartphone on Apple's roster, this leaves consumers wondering if they should get it instead of the slightly more expensive iPhone 16. Here's how the two smartphone stablemates match up on paper. The incumbent iPhone 16 is a fairly decent-sized smartphone, measuring 5.81 inches long and 2.82 inches wide. At 0.31 inches thick, it's thin enough, but not too thin for its overall footprint. On the weight side, the iPhone 16 is six ounces dead, after shaving off a tiny amount of weight from the iPhone 15. The iPhone 16e is a tiny bit smaller than the iPhone 16, shorter at 5.78 inches long but equalling the width and thickness at 2.82 inches and 0.31 inches respectively. It's also a tiny bit lighter at 5.88 ounces. When it comes to design, Apple used its standard glass sandwich approach in the iPhone 16, with a metal frame filling. Aerospace aluminum is used in the middle, while the front glass also benefits from Ceramic Shield protection for extra toughness. This design is carried on through with the iPhone 16e, complete with Ceramic Shield at the front. Around the back, Apple updated the iPhone 16's camera bump, departing from the square bump in favor of a slimmer one, complete with a vertical alignment of the cameras. The iPhone 16e doesn't have a bump per se, but it does have one camera that sticks out from the back. Button-wise, the iPhone 16 has the side button to wake the device, volume controls, an Action button, and the new addition, Camera Control. A capacitive button, it can be used like a conventional point-and-shoot control, while also allowing some extra controls by sliding your finger along it. The iPhone 16e does get the Action button, side button, and volume controls, but it falls short in not having Camera Control. Obviously, there's a fair bit of a similarity here when it comes to size. While you may consider the old iPhone SE to typically be the smallest option in the range, the iPhone 16e is now pretty much toe-to-toe in physical presence to the flagship model. The iPhone 16 has a familiar 6.1-inch OLED Super Retina XDR display. With a resolution of 2,556 by 1,179 pixels, it has a pixel density of 460ppi, which is quite standard for Apple's main smartphones. The iPhone 16e also has a 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR display, complete with OLED as well. However, it has a slightly smaller resolution of 2,532 by 1,170 pixels, while maintaining the 460ppi pixel density. The OLED screen of the iPhone 16 also has a contrast ratio of 2,000,000:1. Brightness is 1,000 nits for SDR content, 1,600 nits peak for HDR, and up to 2,000 nits for outdoor usage. The iPhone 16e retains the contrast ratio, but the brightness isn't quite as high. The max brightness for typical usage is 800 nits, rising to 1,200 nits of peak brightness for HDR content. The top of the iPhone 16 features the Dynamic Island, which combines smart UI elements and the hole in the display for the cameras to create software camouflage that's a step up from the old and reviled notch. Said notch is back, but on the iPhone 16e. Resting at the top, it doesn't benefit from the UI camouflage of the Dynamic Island at all. Rounding out the display spec lists,  they both includes True Tone, Wide color (P3), Haptic Touch, and a fingerprint-resistant oleophobic coating. Apple's upgraded display for the iPhone 16e is a welcome addition versus the old-style iPhone SE. Even so, it still keeps the iPhone 16's display a little bit better in terms of specifications. The rear of the iPhone 16 has two cameras, in a bump half the physical size of the previous square version. Alongside the bump is the True Tone flash. The first camera is the 48MP Fusion camera, formerly the "Main," which has an f/1.6 aperture, sensor-shift optical image stabilization, and 100% Focus Pixels. Its party piece is that it can also offer a virtual 2x Telephoto lens. This is simply performed by cropping into the 48MP image until you're left with a 12MP version. This is still an "optical" zoom as it's not manipulating the image area. However, if you want, there's a maximum 10x digital zoom range. The other camera is a 12MP Ultra Wide version, complete with an f/2.4 aperture, offering an effective 2x zoom out, as well as a 120-degree field of view. New for the iPhone 16 is a Macro mode, as well as a new anti-reflective lens coating. The solitary rear camera on the iPhone 16e is a 48MP Fusion camera, with an f/1.6 aperture. This is mostly the same as the iPhone 16's version, but there's the more typical optical image stabilization in use, not the sensor-shift version. It pulls off the same fake camera trick as the iPhone 16's counterpart, complete with a 2x 12MP crop of the 48MP sensor. As usual, there's the full suite of computational photography tools for both models, including the Photonic Engine and Deep Fusion. There's also Portrait mode with Portrait Lighting, Night Mode, 63MP panoramas, and upgraded Photographic Styles. For stills, there is a difference in that the iPhone 16 is capable of macro photography and Spatial photos, whereas the iPhone 16e is not. Video-wise, the iPhone 16 can deal with 4K 60fps Dolby Vision HDR, 4K 30fps cinematic video stabilization, Action mode at 2.8K 60fps, and 1080p 240fps Slo-mo. Other video features on the iPhone 16 include continuous autofocus, stereo recording, audio zoom, Spatial video Night Mode Time Lapse, and also Time-Lapse with stabilization. The list for the iPhone 16e is oddly similar, with some exceptions. Apple left off Cinematic mode, Action mode, Spatial video, and Macro video recording capabilities. The front camera of the iPhone 16 has a 12MP f/1.9 camera as part of the TrueDepth camera array. There's support for computational photography with the Photonic Engine, Deep Fusion, Smart HDR 5, Portrait mode, Portrait Lighting, Photographic Styles, and Animoji and Memoji. The front camera on the iPhone 16e is exactly the same. Except it's in the notch, not the Dynamic Island. For front camera video, both can record 4K 60Hz Dolby Vision and 120fps 1080p Slo-mo. While both do have cinematic video stabilization at up to 4K, only the iPhone 16 offers a cinematic mode at 4K 30 in Dolby Vision. It's safe to say that two cameras are better than one, and that there are more photography possibilities with the iPhone 16 versus the iPhone 16e. With the exception of a lack of an ultra wide camera and a few modes on the iPhone 16e, they're pretty neck-and-neck on paper. Then again, if photography is a significant feature to you, the Pro models may be a better option. The A18 in the iPhone 16 is a six-core CPU with two performance cores and four efficiency cores. It's accompanied by a five-core GPU as well as a 16-core Neural Engine. That Neural Engine was an upgrade, capable of running ML models twice as fast as the A16 Bionic, and able to run at up to 35 trillion operations per second. For the iPhone 16e, Apple uses almost the same A18 chip. You still get the 16-core Neural Engine and the 6-core CPU, but the GPU is only a four-core version. The main reason behind the iPhone 16e's use of the A18 is Apple Intelligence, a feature that requires an A17 Pro at a minimum to function. With this choice, Apple now has a low-budget entry point for consumers to jump on the Apple Intelligence bandwagon and to use them in their lives. At this stage, there are no options to determine how much of a performance difference there is between the two chips, but the difference is unlikely to be that great. The iPhone 16 has support for 5G connectivity in both sub-6GHz and mmWave bands, using a Qualcomm modem. As a backup, there's Gigabit LTE with 4x4 MIMO and carrier aggregation. For the iPhone 16e, Apple has shifted to using its own design of modem. The C1 is Apple's first commercial attempt at the component, and the iPhone 16e is a trial before deciding if it's worthwhile adding to other future products. While brand new, it isn't going to give iPhone 16 cellular speeds, as it only supports sub-6GHz 5G. Gigabit LTE is also present, as is UMTS/HSPA+ and GSM/EDGE. Shifting to nearby connectivity, the iPhone 16 has Wi-Fi 7 support along with Bluetooth 5.3. There's also Ultra Wideband, which can be used to track down lost AirTags and other iPhone 15 handsets. The iPhone 16e steps down to Wi-Fi 6 support, which is still ample enough for most users, but maintains Bluetooth 5.3 and NFC. It does, however, miss out on Ultra Wideband and Thread, so Find My and HomeKit usage will not be as good as the iPhone 16. Physical connectivity in the iPhone 16 is with USB-C, though Apple did decide to stick to USB 2.0 speeds, not newer standards. This means data transfers at up to 480Mbps, rather than up to 10Gbps. Unsurprisingly, the iPhone 16e uses USB-C at the same USB 2.0 speeds. The iPhone 16 has support for GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, QZSS, and BeiDou for navigational support, as well as a digital compass and iBeacon support. This is copied by the iPhone 16e. Speaking of satellites, both the iPhone 16e and the iPhone 16 have Emergency SOS via Satellite as well as Roadside Assistance via Satellite. Apple claims the iPhone 16 has a battery capacity allowing up to 22 hours of local video playback and up to 18 hours of streaming video playback. Audio playback can hit up to 80 hours. When it comes to the iPhone 16e, Apple actually says it can do better in terms of battery usage. Local video is up to 26 hours, streamed video grows to 21 hours, and audio playback increases to 90 hours. It's not entirely clear why this is the case at this time, but it is probable that by downgrading or changing some internal components, a byproduct is reduced overall power consumption. To recharge the iPhone 16 or iPhone 16e, you can do so via USB-C to take advantage of fast charging. A 50% charge is possible after about 30 minutes when using a 20W charger or higher. Full wireless charging is available on the iPhone 16, with MagSafe working at up to 25W, with additional support for 15W Qi2 and 7.5W Qi. There is wireless charging on the iPhone 16e, but it's not MagSafe. Instead, there is Qi wireless support, limited to 7.5W. The biometric security of the iPhone 16 is handled by Face ID, which uses the front TrueDepth camera array. This is also the same for the iPhone 16e, which finally abandons the Touch ID of the iPhone SE for the face-based version. For water and dust resistance, the iPhone 16 and iPhone 16e are rated at IP68. This means they can withstand being submerged at a depth of up to 6 meters (19.7 feet) for up to an hour. Apple launched the iPhone 16 in three capacities, with the 128GB at $799, 256GB for $899, and 512GB for $1,099. The iPhone 16 launched in Black, White, Pink, Teal, and Ultramarine colorways. The iPhone 16e is sold in the same three capacities,  at $599 for 128GB, $699 for 256GB, and $899 for 512GB. Color options for the iPhone 16e are a bit more limited, with a choice of either Black or White. It's fair to say that what was the iPhone SE line has been given a considerable glow-up. It's been thoroughly modernized, to a degree that it stands pretty much side-by-side with the previous lowest-end model of the current flagship range. You couldn't say that about the old SE, which was always hanging behind the mainline group. What we end up with is an iPhone 16 that's been neutered in a few ways. The screen is ever so marginally smaller and less bright, and it has the notch instead of the more-preferred Dynamic Island. The A18 chip is mostly on-par, but you get one less GPU core in the iPhone 16e instead of the version in the full-fat iPhone 16. The single rear camera isn't entirely that much of a downgrade, as you're only really losing out on the ultra wide shots. That extra camera cropping trick is still present in the 16e. Add in things like the wireless charging differences, Apple's new non-mmWave modem, and no Ultra Wideband, and it's a lot of small downgrades from the defacto iPhone 16 experience. That said, it's a $200 saving if you do accept those small changes. Unless you're extremely picky about your smartphones, there's a lot to like about the iPhone 16e. It's a discount iPhone 16, but more in price than in capability. Wireless carriers are offering aggressive incentives on the iPhone 16 ahead of 16e preorders going live, with prices starting at $0 per month for the device. You can find today's best iPhone deals on the 16, 16 Pro and 16 Plus models at Verizon and AT&T below as we await promos for the new iPhone 16e.  Based in South Wales, Malcolm Owen has written about tech since 2012, and previously wrote for Electronista and MacNN. In his downtime, he pursues photography, has an interest in magic tricks, and is bothered by his c... Good summary, but I wouldn't say $200 or 33% more is "slightly more expensive."You could buy a couple of dozen eggs with the savings of going with the 16e! Good summary, but I wouldn't say $200 or 33% more is "slightly more expensive."You could buy a couple of dozen eggs with the savings of going with the 16e! randominternetperson said:
Good summary, but I wouldn't say $200 or 33% more is "slightly more expensive."You could buy a couple of dozen eggs with the savings of going with the 16e!

A couple of dozen? Let's not get too carried away here... A couple of dozen? Let's not get too carried away here... $499 would have made more sense to make it easier for more people to afford a brand new iPhone. For the $599, I'm sure more people will now buy a better equipped, refurbished iPhone with warranty. OK, it doesn't have the A18, but who will notice the difference in speed? $499 would have made more sense to make it easier for more people to afford a brand new iPhone. For the $599, I'm sure more people will now buy a better equipped, refurbished iPhone with warranty. OK, it doesn't have the A18, but who will notice the difference in speed? Harrytro said:
$499 would have made more sense to make it easier for more people to afford a brand new iPhone. 
$499 wasn't possible with 10% import tariffs and inflation. This is a $200 discount on the iPhone 16 experience. $499 wasn't possible with 10% import tariffs and inflation. This is a $200 discount on the iPhone 16 experience. My wife will be a launch day customer. It is perfect for her. A nice upgrade from her SE2. My wife will be a launch day customer. It is perfect for her. A nice upgrade from her SE2. UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 5
TITLE: Pebble's new smartwatches take on Apple Watch with longer battery life
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/03/18/pebbles-new-smartwatches-take-on-apple-watch-with-longer-battery-life
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. Pebble Core Time 2 Pebble is back and is betting that a 30-day battery life can shake up the smartwatch market dominated by Apple Watch. The company is making a comeback with the Core 2 Duo and the Core Time 2. Led by original Pebble founder Eric Migicovsky, these offerings provide an alternative to the smartwatch market led by the Apple Watch.At $149, the Core 2 Duo is an upgraded version of the classic Pebble 2, featuring modern enhancements such as a black-and-white e-paper display, 30-day battery life, and a polycarbonate frame. The extended battery life comes with trade-offs, as e-paper screens refresh more slowly and lack the vibrant colors and high refresh rates of traditional OLED smartwatch displays.In contrast, Apple's Series 10 offers only 18 hours of battery life but excels with a brighter, more colorful display and extensive health-tracking capabilities, including a new sleep apnea detector. Apple's Series 10 also features deep iPhone integration with Apple Pay, Siri, and fast-charging. The Apple Watch SE, which starts at $249, is a more direct price competitor to Pebble's models, offering core Apple Watch functionality at a lower cost. Two new smartwatches from Pebble. Image credit: PebbleThe Core Time 2, priced at $225, features a vibrant 64-color e-paper touchscreen display, metal construction, and advanced interactions similar to Apple's complications. It claims 30 days of battery life but lacks an always-on display and advanced sensors like ECG or blood oxygen monitoring.Both Pebble watches contrast Apple's polished integration and proprietary software. Pebble's open-source PebbleOS appeals to tech enthusiasts seeking customization, with support for sideloading apps and community modifications. Pebble devices can't match Apple's seamless ecosystem integration, especially regarding iOS functionalities like Apple Pay and Fitness+ tracking. But for users valuing extensive battery life, retro-style e-paper displays, and open-source flexibility, Pebble's latest offerings offer an interesting alternative to the Apple Watch. The company is making a comeback with the Core 2 Duo and the Core Time 2. Led by original Pebble founder Eric Migicovsky, these offerings provide an alternative to the smartwatch market led by the Apple Watch. At $149, the Core 2 Duo is an upgraded version of the classic Pebble 2, featuring modern enhancements such as a black-and-white e-paper display, 30-day battery life, and a polycarbonate frame. The extended battery life comes with trade-offs, as e-paper screens refresh more slowly and lack the vibrant colors and high refresh rates of traditional OLED smartwatch displays. In contrast, Apple's Series 10 offers only 18 hours of battery life but excels with a brighter, more colorful display and extensive health-tracking capabilities, including a new sleep apnea detector. Apple's Series 10 also features deep iPhone integration with Apple Pay, Siri, and fast-charging.  The Apple Watch SE, which starts at $249, is a more direct price competitor to Pebble's models, offering core Apple Watch functionality at a lower cost. The Core Time 2, priced at $225, features a vibrant 64-color e-paper touchscreen display, metal construction, and advanced interactions similar to Apple's complications. It claims 30 days of battery life but lacks an always-on display and advanced sensors like ECG or blood oxygen monitoring. Both Pebble watches contrast Apple's polished integration and proprietary software. Pebble's open-source PebbleOS appeals to tech enthusiasts seeking customization, with support for sideloading apps and community modifications. Pebble devices can't match Apple's seamless ecosystem integration, especially regarding iOS functionalities like Apple Pay and Fitness+ tracking. But for users valuing extensive battery life, retro-style e-paper displays, and open-source flexibility, Pebble's latest offerings offer an interesting alternative to the Apple Watch. Andrew is a writer and commentator who has been sharing his insights on technology since 2015. He has authored numerous online articles covering a range of topics including Apple, privacy, and security. Andrew joined ... Hampered by Apple anticompetitive stuff so it will suck using this with iOS. https://ericmigi.com/blog/apple-restricts-pebble-from-being-awesome-with-iphonesIt will probably integrate fantastically with Android, so pick your poison. Hampered by Apple anticompetitive stuff so it will suck using this with iOS. https://ericmigi.com/blog/apple-restricts-pebble-from-being-awesome-with-iphonesIt will probably integrate fantastically with Android, so pick your poison. I wish them well. My wife has a Huawei Watch GT4 which is perfect for what she wanted (design and battery life) but she complains about the restrictions Apple imposes with regards to her iPhone. She's hoping the EU will be able to change that.In the meantime she loves the vibrant screen, fluidity of HarmonyOS and week long battery life plus 'fast' charging. I wish them well. My wife has a Huawei Watch GT4 which is perfect for what she wanted (design and battery life) but she complains about the restrictions Apple imposes with regards to her iPhone. She's hoping the EU will be able to change that.In the meantime she loves the vibrant screen, fluidity of HarmonyOS and week long battery life plus 'fast' charging. michelb76 said:
Hampered by Apple anticompetitive stuff so it will suck using this with iOS. https://ericmigi.com/blog/apple-restricts-pebble-from-being-awesome-with-iphonesIt will probably integrate fantastically with Android, so pick your poison.

From the link: "Apple claims their restrictions on competitors are only about security, privacy, crafting a better experience etc etc. At least that’s what they tell you as they tuck you into bed. I personally don’t agree - they’re clearly using their market power to lock consumers into their walled ecosystem."It's really hard not to laugh out loud. Apple has ALWAYS been about a walled garden. Not a bug, but a feature. And for years and years (and years) it was roasted for this approach while Apple buyers were ridiculed as stupid sheeple being led to certain slaughter because Apple and its walled garden were doomed in the face of Windows and Android freedom! Funny thing: consumers voted with their wallets for the walled garden and made Apple the most successful consumer electronics company in history. Another funny thing: the competitors stopped predicting doom for the walled garden and are now wailing--with apologies to Pink Floyd--to tear down the wall! Now the walled garden, because it has become so successful thanks to consumers choosing it, is "anti-competitive." Oh, give me a break and tough luck! If you like the freedom of an open system, you have plenty of other choices which, collectively, outsell Apple by a lot. Have at it! Just leave me and my choice to buy into the walled garden alone. From the link: "Apple claims their restrictions on competitors are only about security, privacy, crafting a better experience etc etc. At least that’s what they tell you as they tuck you into bed. I personally don’t agree - they’re clearly using their market power to lock consumers into their walled ecosystem."It's really hard not to laugh out loud. Apple has ALWAYS been about a walled garden. Not a bug, but a feature. And for years and years (and years) it was roasted for this approach while Apple buyers were ridiculed as stupid sheeple being led to certain slaughter because Apple and its walled garden were doomed in the face of Windows and Android freedom! Funny thing: consumers voted with their wallets for the walled garden and made Apple the most successful consumer electronics company in history. Another funny thing: the competitors stopped predicting doom for the walled garden and are now wailing--with apologies to Pink Floyd--to tear down the wall! Now the walled garden, because it has become so successful thanks to consumers choosing it, is "anti-competitive." Oh, give me a break and tough luck! If you like the freedom of an open system, you have plenty of other choices which, collectively, outsell Apple by a lot. Have at it! Just leave me and my choice to buy into the walled garden alone. Just no. I had a Pebble before Apple released their Watches didn't like it at all. While I don't wear watches as a fashion statement, I like them to look nice as well as be functional to whatever degree I desire at the moment. So good luck to Pebble. I don't mind that they can't play in Apple's yard. I wish Apple would follow Hauwei  and Samsung's lead and make a round Watch. I've looked at the latters' offerings and haven't seen one that would make a good casual-dress watch, like a Rolex Datejust. Something that doesn't have to look like a smartwatch when I don't need it too. Apple has a few watch faces that fit the bill but I'm getting tired of the same old-same old rectangular shape. The Series 10 does soften that a tad. But even Apple needs to do a little more to make the Watches and faces look a little more elegant without being busy or ornate. Pebble need not apply. Just no. I had a Pebble before Apple released their Watches didn't like it at all. While I don't wear watches as a fashion statement, I like them to look nice as well as be functional to whatever degree I desire at the moment. So good luck to Pebble. I don't mind that they can't play in Apple's yard. I wish Apple would follow Hauwei  and Samsung's lead and make a round Watch. I've looked at the latters' offerings and haven't seen one that would make a good casual-dress watch, like a Rolex Datejust. Something that doesn't have to look like a smartwatch when I don't need it too. Apple has a few watch faces that fit the bill but I'm getting tired of the same old-same old rectangular shape. The Series 10 does soften that a tad. But even Apple needs to do a little more to make the Watches and faces look a little more elegant without being busy or ornate. Pebble need not apply. His complaints seem mostly about security features, a major selling point for Apple products.it is no coincidence that he is complaining about iMessage access either. His complaints seem mostly about security features, a major selling point for Apple products.it is no coincidence that he is complaining about iMessage access either. UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. Drivers in Denver can get a free AirTag to hide in their vehicle, in a program the Denver Police Department hopes will reduce auto thefts. Apple's work to diversify its supply chain is continuing, with assembly partners preparing to start manufacturing AirPods in India as soon as April. The world of the smart ring is a relatively new one, especially when compared to smartwatches. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 6
TITLE: Rumored iOS 19 & macOS 16 design changes will be polarizing, as always
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/03/11/rumored-ios-19-macos-16-design-changes-will-be-polarizing-as-always
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. How we used to live. Top: iOS from 2008. Bottom: iOS from 2013. Apple is rumored to be overhauling the design of iOS 19 and macOS 16, and based on what's happened before, the changes will polarize users before ultimately becoming accepted. This rumored redesign could even be enormous, and may follow previous claims that Apple will bring visionOS design touches to all of its platforms. Whether or not Apple Vision Pro actually has any impact on iOS and macOS, though, Apple's two main operating systems have seen radical resigns in the past.Redesigning macOSIn the case of the Mac, it's not all that far in the past. Back in 2020, the then-new macOS Big Sur was such a departure that it was named macOS 11 —  after 20 years of it being macOS X.It was still recognizably the Mac, but macOS Big Sur introduced rounded corners, a new look for the Dock and menu bar. It also brought over Control Center from iOS, and along the way introduced the idea of Catalyst apps, which were iPhone ones that could run on the Mac.Still, critics saw this new macOS as being Apple foisting the iOS and iPadOS look and feel onto the Mac. "[However, rather] than being disgruntled that some things on the Mac are changing and —  horrors! —  reflecting the work Apple's already done for iPadOS," wrote AppleInsider's Daniel Eran Dilger at the time, "it's useful to look at things from the other direction... for years, the Mac has received less of Apple's attention and resources simply because the market opportunities afforded by iPhones and iPad were vastly larger."Any one of the macOS Big Sur changes might be described as small. There was the introduction of a Control Center to the menu bar, but otherwise it was chiefly that app icons were now more rounded, and macOS used a lot of translucency.A lot of translucency. Even the Mac's menu bar was translucent, which sometimes made it hard to read, depending on a user's wallpaper.  Screenshot of Mac OS XBut Apple was not bashful about introducing changes with macOS Big Sur. Instead, it came out swinging with both that new macOS 11 name, and a vividly vibrant new wallpaper that to some people screamed cartoonish. Screenshot of macOS 11 —  image source: Apple"There are definitely some aggressive, challenging changes in the macOS Big Sur design that will throw long-time Mac users for a loop," wrote Jason Snell in his blog Six Colors. "And I expect that some of them will end up getting re-thought by Apple's designers over the next couple of releases."True enough, the wallpaper got toned down, and Control Center became more customizable. But still, the current macOS Sequoia is clearly a closer descendant of Big Sur than it is to the older Mac OS X.It's also a more recent descendant, too. For Mac OS X was only replaced by macOS Big Sur in 2020. Compare that to iOS, which had its own much, much greater redesign as long ago as 2013.Redesigning iOSFrom its first release in 2007, Apple's iPhone had a design that has broadly continued to this day, and was broadly borrowed by every single other smartphone that followed it. But in 2013, the detail of that design changed dramatically, and it was for a reason.The original iOS lead Scott Forstall had been fired in 2012, chiefly over his refusing to co-sign Apple's apology about how bad Apple Maps was at launch. Changing something as significant as the iPhone's whole look and feel is perhaps not something that could happen very quickly, so possibly the changes were underway before Forstall's exit.Nonetheless, Forstall was replaced by Jony Ive and Craig Federighi, and the former, at least, was already known for his preference for a more minimalist design for everything. Then head of design, Ive had worked on the original iPhone, the iMac, the iPad, and so many more devices, seemingly always making them thinner. So when iOS 7 was released in 2013 and it featured a startlingly more minimalist design, it was not a surprise. From the start to iOS 6, the idea had been to make the iPhone feel familiar by showing people app icons that resembled real life objects. So the Calendar app had a faux leather look, and a torn piece of paper at the top.It was skeuomorphism, the idea of digitally representing familar objects to make it easier for users to understand how things worked. Whether it was Ive's passion for minimalism, or just a recognition that after six years, people got the idea, iOS 7 changed it all.Every trace of skeuomorphism was gone and instead iOS and all of Apple's stock apps adopted a flat look. Users' reactions weren't what you'd call mixed, as they were very definitely either for or against the whole thing."iOS (like Windows Phone) is now a type orgy that appeals to print designers not human beings," tweeted designer Andrew Borovsky, from a Twitter account that has since been deleted."If you don't think iOS 7 is beautiful, I don't know what to say to you," tweeted John Gruber at the time.Speaking to the issue of this change being because of firing of Scott Forstall, former New York Times design director Khoi Vinh wasn't impressed. "If iOS 7 is revenge on Forstall, Forstall's revenge may be that it's kind of not that great," he wrote, in another tweet that can no longer be accessed.Users don't care"If there's one thing to learn from new versions of Apple's mobile software, iOS, it might be that everyday people don't care about what so-called tech influencers have to say," opined the New York Times in June 2013. "The latest operating system has a far different design than earlier versions, but consumers appear to be reacting mostly positively to the change."That was based on Twitter analytics company Topsy's examination of 7 million tweets. The tweets were split with 1.2 million positive, 1.1 negative, and the rest just neutral.But Topsy also noted that the majority of the negative tweets were complaints about how it took to download the new iOS 7. Control Center in iOS 7. It's harder to read than today's version, but the same ideaDespite that now forgotten slow download time, reportedly users adopted iOS 7 faster than they did iOS 6. Specifically, online advertising network Chitka estimated that 18% of all iOS devices were running iOS 7 within 24 hours of its release —  compared to 14.8% for iOS 6's first day.Redesign that's more than skin deepIf it's a little unfair to say that macOS Big Sur's major redesign was visual, it's ridiculous to say it of iOS 7. Despite the visual changes being the most immediate and very striking difference, iOS 7 introduced a whole range of new features that are now favorites.It was iOS 7 that introduced Control Center, for instance. Back then, users had to swipe up from the bottom of the screen and what they saw was on a translucent background, but it was Control Center.AirDrop came to the iPhone with iOS 7, too, although it had already been available on Macs. And instead of app folders limiting users to 16 apps, they could now have multiple pages within the folder.Then quite quickly after the launch of iOS 7, third-party apps adopted its new, flat design. Some of that was imposed by iOS, but developers also worked to embrace it —  and arguably to address some issues.With iOS 7, for instance, a line of text on screen could be just a line of text, or it could be a button. It wasn't always very clear, and over time both developers and Apple made subtle changes to make it more obvious.They definitely did do that, but also we got used to the flatter design. So after 12 years, we are perhaps as trained to use this design as skeuomorphism tried to teach us back at the start.What remains of the redesignsApart from the slightly more muted wallpaper, the versions of macOS since Big Sur have not lost anything that was introduced with 2020's redesign. Then iOS hasn't lost much since 2013, but it has lost some things. The redesigned and expanded Control Center in iOS 18And they're probably all down to the iPhone X and iOS 11 in 2017. By getting rid of the Home button, Apple had to introduce us all to new gestures for getting around the iPhone, and the closest thing to a casualty of this was the Control Center.It's tempting to say that it didn't go anywhere, since we still have Control Center and it's even recently been expanded. But it has gone somewhere, it's gone from the bottom of the screen to the top right.That still means users are as likely to find it by accident as they are deliberately. But once they have found it, they can see —  and customize it —  more clearly because the translucent background is gone.If that sounds like a small progression since 2013, it is. For all of the changes that have come to the iPhone in the past dozen years, Apple's massive redesign in iOS 7 got it right.Or at least, if it didn't, we got used to it. And doubtlessly will again if it's true that iOS 19 and macOS 16 get another radical redesign. This rumored redesign could even be enormous, and may follow previous claims that Apple will bring visionOS design touches to all of its platforms. Whether or not Apple Vision Pro actually has any impact on iOS and macOS, though, Apple's two main operating systems have seen radical resigns in the past. In the case of the Mac, it's not all that far in the past. Back in 2020, the then-new macOS Big Sur was such a departure that it was named macOS 11 —  after 20 years of it being macOS X. It was still recognizably the Mac, but macOS Big Sur introduced rounded corners, a new look for the Dock and menu bar. It also brought over Control Center from iOS, and along the way introduced the idea of Catalyst apps, which were iPhone ones that could run on the Mac. Still, critics saw this new macOS as being Apple foisting the iOS and iPadOS look and feel onto the Mac. "[However, rather] than being disgruntled that some things on the Mac are changing and —  horrors! —  reflecting the work Apple's already done for iPadOS," wrote AppleInsider's Daniel Eran Dilger at the time, "it's useful to look at things from the other direction... for years, the Mac has received less of Apple's attention and resources simply because the market opportunities afforded by iPhones and iPad were vastly larger." Any one of the macOS Big Sur changes might be described as small. There was the introduction of a Control Center to the menu bar, but otherwise it was chiefly that app icons were now more rounded, and macOS used a lot of translucency. A lot of translucency. Even the Mac's menu bar was translucent, which sometimes made it hard to read, depending on a user's wallpaper. But Apple was not bashful about introducing changes with macOS Big Sur. Instead, it came out swinging with both that new macOS 11 name, and a vividly vibrant new wallpaper that to some people screamed cartoonish. "There are definitely some aggressive, challenging changes in the macOS Big Sur design that will throw long-time Mac users for a loop," wrote Jason Snell in his blog Six Colors. "And I expect that some of them will end up getting re-thought by Apple's designers over the next couple of releases."  True enough, the wallpaper got toned down, and Control Center became more customizable. But still, the current macOS Sequoia is clearly a closer descendant of Big Sur than it is to the older Mac OS X. It's also a more recent descendant, too. For Mac OS X was only replaced by macOS Big Sur in 2020. Compare that to iOS, which had its own much, much greater redesign as long ago as 2013. From its first release in 2007, Apple's iPhone had a design that has broadly continued to this day, and was broadly borrowed by every single other smartphone that followed it. But in 2013, the detail of that design changed dramatically, and it was for a reason. The original iOS lead Scott Forstall had been fired in 2012, chiefly over his refusing to co-sign Apple's apology about how bad Apple Maps was at launch. Changing something as significant as the iPhone's whole look and feel is perhaps not something that could happen very quickly, so possibly the changes were underway before Forstall's exit. Nonetheless, Forstall was replaced by Jony Ive and Craig Federighi, and the former, at least, was already known for his preference for a more minimalist design for everything. Then head of design, Ive had worked on the original iPhone, the iMac, the iPad, and so many more devices, seemingly always making them thinner. So when iOS 7 was released in 2013 and it featured a startlingly more minimalist design, it was not a surprise. From the start to iOS 6, the idea had been to make the iPhone feel familiar by showing people app icons that resembled real life objects. So the Calendar app had a faux leather look, and a torn piece of paper at the top. It was skeuomorphism, the idea of digitally representing familar objects to make it easier for users to understand how things worked. Whether it was Ive's passion for minimalism, or just a recognition that after six years, people got the idea, iOS 7 changed it all. Every trace of skeuomorphism was gone and instead iOS and all of Apple's stock apps adopted a flat look. Users' reactions weren't what you'd call mixed, as they were very definitely either for or against the whole thing. "iOS (like Windows Phone) is now a type orgy that appeals to print designers not human beings," tweeted designer Andrew Borovsky, from a Twitter account that has since been deleted. "If you don't think iOS 7 is beautiful, I don't know what to say to you," tweeted John Gruber at the time. Speaking to the issue of this change being because of firing of Scott Forstall, former New York Times design director Khoi Vinh wasn't impressed. "If iOS 7 is revenge on Forstall, Forstall's revenge may be that it's kind of not that great," he wrote, in another tweet that can no longer be accessed. "If there's one thing to learn from new versions of Apple's mobile software, iOS, it might be that everyday people don't care about what so-called tech influencers have to say," opined the New York Times in June 2013. "The latest operating system has a far different design than earlier versions, but consumers appear to be reacting mostly positively to the change." That was based on Twitter analytics company Topsy's examination of 7 million tweets. The tweets were split with 1.2 million positive, 1.1 negative, and the rest just neutral. But Topsy also noted that the majority of the negative tweets were complaints about how it took to download the new iOS 7. Despite that now forgotten slow download time, reportedly users adopted iOS 7 faster than they did iOS 6. Specifically, online advertising network Chitka estimated that 18% of all iOS devices were running iOS 7 within 24 hours of its release —  compared to 14.8% for iOS 6's first day. If it's a little unfair to say that macOS Big Sur's major redesign was visual, it's ridiculous to say it of iOS 7. Despite the visual changes being the most immediate and very striking difference, iOS 7 introduced a whole range of new features that are now favorites. It was iOS 7 that introduced Control Center, for instance. Back then, users had to swipe up from the bottom of the screen and what they saw was on a translucent background, but it was Control Center. AirDrop came to the iPhone with iOS 7, too, although it had already been available on Macs. And instead of app folders limiting users to 16 apps, they could now have multiple pages within the folder. Then quite quickly after the launch of iOS 7, third-party apps adopted its new, flat design. Some of that was imposed by iOS, but developers also worked to embrace it —  and arguably to address some issues. With iOS 7, for instance, a line of text on screen could be just a line of text, or it could be a button. It wasn't always very clear, and over time both developers and Apple made subtle changes to make it more obvious. They definitely did do that, but also we got used to the flatter design. So after 12 years, we are perhaps as trained to use this design as skeuomorphism tried to teach us back at the start. Apart from the slightly more muted wallpaper, the versions of macOS since Big Sur have not lost anything that was introduced with 2020's redesign. Then iOS hasn't lost much since 2013, but it has lost some things. And they're probably all down to the iPhone X and iOS 11 in 2017. By getting rid of the Home button, Apple had to introduce us all to new gestures for getting around the iPhone, and the closest thing to a casualty of this was the Control Center. It's tempting to say that it didn't go anywhere, since we still have Control Center and it's even recently been expanded. But it has gone somewhere, it's gone from the bottom of the screen to the top right. That still means users are as likely to find it by accident as they are deliberately. But once they have found it, they can see —  and customize it —  more clearly because the translucent background is gone. If that sounds like a small progression since 2013, it is. For all of the changes that have come to the iPhone in the past dozen years, Apple's massive redesign in iOS 7 got it right. Or at least, if it didn't, we got used to it. And doubtlessly will again if it's true that iOS 19 and macOS 16 get another radical redesign. William Gallagher has 30 years of experience between the BBC and AppleInsider discussing Apple technology. Outside of AppleInsider, he's best known for writing Doctor Who radio dramas for BBC/Big Finish, and is the De... Honestly I’m looking forward to this. So many of the icons in the dock, on the Mac or on iOS devices are just blue squares with a thing in the middle. AppStore, Weather, Keynote, Designer, Support, and more. The same is true with other colours. It will be nice to get a bit more variety, make them more distinctive. A little bit of skeuomorphism is not a bad thing. Honestly I’m looking forward to this. So many of the icons in the dock, on the Mac or on iOS devices are just blue squares with a thing in the middle. AppStore, Weather, Keynote, Designer, Support, and more. The same is true with other colours. It will be nice to get a bit more variety, make them more distinctive. A little bit of skeuomorphism is not a bad thing. Give it a chance to prove itself. There's no need to poison the well when we really have no idea about what charges are coming. Give it a chance to prove itself. There's no need to poison the well when we really have no idea about what charges are coming. With iOS 7, for instance, a line of text on screen could be just a line of text, or it could be a button. It wasn't always very clear, and over time both developers and Apple made subtle changes to make it more obvious.

This is what I didn’t like about iOS7.   iOS9 was buggy as hell.   iOS10 finally felt stable. This is what I didn’t like about iOS7.   iOS9 was buggy as hell.   iOS10 finally felt stable. It'd be nice if Apple allowed easy customization so that we could have the look we want instead of what we're forced to have.  Updates for features are awesome but having the flat look jam down our throats wasn't cool.  I've always hated the flat look and if given the choice to flip a switch or download an icon pack, I would in an instant.  I choose to Think Different.  Forced conformity for features is something Microsoft would do.  I hate the look of the oses and wish changes were readily available for those of us who would trash the flat look in an instant. It'd be nice if Apple allowed easy customization so that we could have the look we want instead of what we're forced to have.  Updates for features are awesome but having the flat look jam down our throats wasn't cool.  I've always hated the flat look and if given the choice to flip a switch or download an icon pack, I would in an instant.  I choose to Think Different.  Forced conformity for features is something Microsoft would do.  I hate the look of the oses and wish changes were readily available for those of us who would trash the flat look in an instant. Yay! New desktop icons! Yay! Yay! New desktop icons! Yay! UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. The European Commission is forcing new rules on Apple — and only Apple — that will likely mean delaying or not releasing more iPhone software updates to the European Union, all in the name of interoperability with rivals. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 7
TITLE: AirPods 4 - four-month review: The best Apple earbuds for most people
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/01/24/airpods-4---four-month-review-the-best-apple-earbuds-for-most-people
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. The AirPods 4 come in a new, smaller case that you can take anywhere. Last updated 1 month ago When Apple released not one but two different versions of its new AirPods 4 in September of 2024 it changed the landscape of the company's lineup. And it might just have been a stroke of genius. While the AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods Max still sit at the very top of Apple's audio accessory pyramid, they're known quantities and simply too expensive for a whole lot of people. The arrival of a new AirPods pairing is undoubtedly the best option for millions of people and the AirPods 4 (ANC) is arguably the best wireless earbuds for most people —  including me.I've been testing the standard AirPods 4 and upgraded ANC version since not long after they were released and I've used them to listen to music, podcasts, and audiobooks for countless hours during that time. I expected to enjoy the ANC version the most, but what I didn't expect was for them to replace my AirPods Pro 2.Yet, here we are and I don't see me going back to my AirPods Pro any time soon, either. This long-term review isn't going to get into all the nitty-gritty details and specs —  you can read our initial AirPods 4 review for that —  but rather why AirPods 4 have made a home for themselves in my ears in recent months.AirPods 4 four-month review: To ANC, or not to ANCBuyers looking at the prospect of picking up a new pair of AirPods will need to consider which version they want to choose. The main difference between the two is obviously the active noise cancelation (ANC) technology, but it isn't the only one.A key difference between the two AirPods 4 models is one that often gets overlooked, but it could be a big one depending on your charging habits. Only the AirPods 4 (ANC) support wireless charging while the standard AirPods 4 are limited to charging via USB-C.That might not be a huge deal for some, but if you really want wireless charging you're also going to get ANC included. If you're a fan of both features, it's a no-brainer.Other features that make the ANC version compelling include adaptive audio that can adjust the level of noise cancelation used based on your surroundings. Conversational Awareness is another feature of import, one that lowers the volume when you start speaking so you can have a short conversation without manually pausing whatever's playing.Of course, getting better features means paying more money. The standard AirPods 4 retail for $129 while the ANC version will set you back $179. AirPods Pro 2 retail for $249 which means the $70 difference is important to ponder if you're keen on getting the best wireless earbuds experience. Apple resellers are also running sales on the AirPods line, narrowing the price difference between the models.

AirPods 4


       AirPods 4 are equipped with Apple's H2 chip and can be ordered with or without Active Noise Cancellation.
    


Buy at Amazon


Buy at B&H


Buy at Adorama


AirPods 4 four-month review: A huge design changeMy previous choice of using the AirPods Pro wasn't just down to their superior sound quality or the addition of ANC, although the latter definitely helped. Part of the reason was the simple fact that the design of standard AirPods simply didn't agree with me. Or more accurately, my ears. The new AirPods 4 have a redesigned earbud to fit more easily in your ears.AirPods just never felt like they were in properly, like they could fall out at a moment's notice and with one ill-timed move of my jaw. I get that some people don't like the in-ear design of AirPods Pro and similar earbuds, but for me, that seal was as much about security as it was about improving bass and sound leakage.So when Apple sent me the new AirPods 4 to test late last year, I didn't have particularly high hopes. I'd used them briefly during a media briefing but that wasn't enough time to get a real feel for how they would fare in real life.I wasn't expecting what happened when I started using these things because while they aren't quite as secure as AirPods Pro, they aren't all that far off.The new design is to thank for that, and it's one that Apple's suitably proud of. It says that the "new design is built with an unparalleled data set that uses advanced modeling tools, like 3D photogrammetry and laser topography, to precisely map and analyze thousands of ear shapes and over 50 million individual data points in total."That sounds like a lot of data points but figures aside, the proof is in the fitting and Apple's claim of delivering the most comfortable AirPods ever seems pretty accurate to me. I can wear these things all day, every day, and I often forget I have them in when I leave my home office.That's thanks in part to the impressive Transparency Mode feature which is of course only available on the ANC version of AirPods 4.The design changes don't stop with the earbuds, either. The charging case has had a nip and tuck as well.Buy a pair of AirPods 4 and you'll notice a charging case that's more than 10% smaller than its predecessor while still offering up to 30 hours of battery life. The ANC pair comes with a wireless charging case that can now be powered by not just any Qi charger but also an Apple Watch charger as well —  perfect for those who travel and now have one fewer cable to take with them.Apple says that the new case is just 50mm wide and the smallest in the industry to support wireless charging. I can't imagine anyone making a case smaller while maintaining similar functionality, that's to be sure.AirPods 4 four-month review: Sounds good to meA pair of wireless earbuds can have all the bells and whistles in the world, but they're no good if they sound bad. None of Apple's AirPods have ever let them down in that regard, but some do sound better than others. The AirPods 4 really should come in some new colors.As someone who previously used AirPods Pro earbuds, I was worried that I would find AirPods 4 to be lacking here, and I was pleasantly surprised. Bass was one area I expected the AirPods 4 to really struggle thanks to their open design, but I needn't have worried.Now, it's important to note here that I'm no audiophile and I don't have any fancy hardware to measure anything. I'm purely using my ears as a gauge and I'm willing to bet that's the case for most people shopping in the AirPods 4 pool of wireless earbuds, too.If that's you, I can tell you now that you won't be disappointed. I've listened to music, podcasts, and audiobooks and they've all sounded great. Deep and rumbly when needed, yet light and crisp when it's called for.I've also taken more phone calls than I'd like over the last few months of testing the AirPods 4 and I've yet to have an issue. I could hear the caller and they could hear me, what more could you ask for?AirPods 4 four-month review: AirPods Pro liteIn case it isn't already clear, I'm a big fan of what Apple has done with the AirPods 4, and particularly the incarnation with ANC support. They're basically AirPods Pro-lite and offer many of the same features in a less controversial form factor and at a cheaper price. AirPods 4 with ANC offer AirPods Pro-like features for less.AirPods 4 might not sound as good as AirPods Pro 2, although I would argue most people wouldn't notice a difference. And if you're all about that noise isolation and avoiding leakage you're probably still better off going with Apple's premium earbuds. For most people, most of the time, AirPods 4 are the way to go. That is, of course, until we see what the next version of Apple's AirPods Pro has to offer.The downsides? The main one for me is the color. In a world where the Apple-owned Beats offers earbuds in a multitude of colors, why are AirPods stuck with boring white?Come on, Apple. It's time to bring some of those AirPods Max colors to the rest of the lineup.AirPods 4 four-month review: Pros New design that's easier and more comfortable to wear than ever before.
 ANC support means buyers don't necessarily have to go for AirPods Pro to get the best features.
 The new ANC charging case is smaller yet supports wireless charging.
 AirPods 4 sound surprisingly great considering their open design, with stronger bass than expected.AirPods 4 four-month review: Cons It's time AirPods came in something other than white.
 Two versions of AirPods 4 can be confusing, and the naming scheme doesn't help.
 The lack of volume controls is a pain if you're used to AirPods Pro 2.AirPods 4 Rating: 4 out of 5Where to buy AirPods 4You can buy Apple's AirPods 4 at Amazon, with discounts in effect on the earbuds with ANC and without. Browse the best AirPods deals in our dedicated AirPods Price Guide, which is regularly updated to ensure it reflects the best deals. While the AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods Max still sit at the very top of Apple's audio accessory pyramid, they're known quantities and simply too expensive for a whole lot of people. The arrival of a new AirPods pairing is undoubtedly the best option for millions of people and the AirPods 4 (ANC) is arguably the best wireless earbuds for most people —  including me. I've been testing the standard AirPods 4 and upgraded ANC version since not long after they were released and I've used them to listen to music, podcasts, and audiobooks for countless hours during that time. I expected to enjoy the ANC version the most, but what I didn't expect was for them to replace my AirPods Pro 2. Yet, here we are and I don't see me going back to my AirPods Pro any time soon, either. This long-term review isn't going to get into all the nitty-gritty details and specs —  you can read our initial AirPods 4 review for that —  but rather why AirPods 4 have made a home for themselves in my ears in recent months. Buyers looking at the prospect of picking up a new pair of AirPods will need to consider which version they want to choose. The main difference between the two is obviously the active noise cancelation (ANC) technology, but it isn't the only one. A key difference between the two AirPods 4 models is one that often gets overlooked, but it could be a big one depending on your charging habits. Only the AirPods 4 (ANC) support wireless charging while the standard AirPods 4 are limited to charging via USB-C. That might not be a huge deal for some, but if you really want wireless charging you're also going to get ANC included. If you're a fan of both features, it's a no-brainer. Other features that make the ANC version compelling include adaptive audio that can adjust the level of noise cancelation used based on your surroundings. Conversational Awareness is another feature of import, one that lowers the volume when you start speaking so you can have a short conversation without manually pausing whatever's playing. Of course, getting better features means paying more money. The standard AirPods 4 retail for $129 while the ANC version will set you back $179. AirPods Pro 2 retail for $249 which means the $70 difference is important to ponder if you're keen on getting the best wireless earbuds experience. Apple resellers are also running sales on the AirPods line, narrowing the price difference between the models. My previous choice of using the AirPods Pro wasn't just down to their superior sound quality or the addition of ANC, although the latter definitely helped. Part of the reason was the simple fact that the design of standard AirPods simply didn't agree with me. Or more accurately, my ears. AirPods just never felt like they were in properly, like they could fall out at a moment's notice and with one ill-timed move of my jaw. I get that some people don't like the in-ear design of AirPods Pro and similar earbuds, but for me, that seal was as much about security as it was about improving bass and sound leakage. So when Apple sent me the new AirPods 4 to test late last year, I didn't have particularly high hopes. I'd used them briefly during a media briefing but that wasn't enough time to get a real feel for how they would fare in real life. I wasn't expecting what happened when I started using these things because while they aren't quite as secure as AirPods Pro, they aren't all that far off. The new design is to thank for that, and it's one that Apple's suitably proud of. It says that the "new design is built with an unparalleled data set that uses advanced modeling tools, like 3D photogrammetry and laser topography, to precisely map and analyze thousands of ear shapes and over 50 million individual data points in total." That sounds like a lot of data points but figures aside, the proof is in the fitting and Apple's claim of delivering the most comfortable AirPods ever seems pretty accurate to me. I can wear these things all day, every day, and I often forget I have them in when I leave my home office. That's thanks in part to the impressive Transparency Mode feature which is of course only available on the ANC version of AirPods 4. The design changes don't stop with the earbuds, either. The charging case has had a nip and tuck as well. Buy a pair of AirPods 4 and you'll notice a charging case that's more than 10% smaller than its predecessor while still offering up to 30 hours of battery life. The ANC pair comes with a wireless charging case that can now be powered by not just any Qi charger but also an Apple Watch charger as well —  perfect for those who travel and now have one fewer cable to take with them. Apple says that the new case is just 50mm wide and the smallest in the industry to support wireless charging. I can't imagine anyone making a case smaller while maintaining similar functionality, that's to be sure. A pair of wireless earbuds can have all the bells and whistles in the world, but they're no good if they sound bad. None of Apple's AirPods have ever let them down in that regard, but some do sound better than others. As someone who previously used AirPods Pro earbuds, I was worried that I would find AirPods 4 to be lacking here, and I was pleasantly surprised. Bass was one area I expected the AirPods 4 to really struggle thanks to their open design, but I needn't have worried. Now, it's important to note here that I'm no audiophile and I don't have any fancy hardware to measure anything. I'm purely using my ears as a gauge and I'm willing to bet that's the case for most people shopping in the AirPods 4 pool of wireless earbuds, too. If that's you, I can tell you now that you won't be disappointed. I've listened to music, podcasts, and audiobooks and they've all sounded great. Deep and rumbly when needed, yet light and crisp when it's called for. I've also taken more phone calls than I'd like over the last few months of testing the AirPods 4 and I've yet to have an issue. I could hear the caller and they could hear me, what more could you ask for? In case it isn't already clear, I'm a big fan of what Apple has done with the AirPods 4, and particularly the incarnation with ANC support. They're basically AirPods Pro-lite and offer many of the same features in a less controversial form factor and at a cheaper price. AirPods 4 might not sound as good as AirPods Pro 2, although I would argue most people wouldn't notice a difference. And if you're all about that noise isolation and avoiding leakage you're probably still better off going with Apple's premium earbuds. For most people, most of the time, AirPods 4 are the way to go. That is, of course, until we see what the next version of Apple's AirPods Pro has to offer. The downsides? The main one for me is the color. In a world where the Apple-owned Beats offers earbuds in a multitude of colors, why are AirPods stuck with boring white? Come on, Apple. It's time to bring some of those AirPods Max colors to the rest of the lineup. You can buy Apple's AirPods 4 at Amazon, with discounts in effect on the earbuds with ANC and without. Browse the best AirPods deals in our dedicated AirPods Price Guide, which is regularly updated to ensure it reflects the best deals.  Oliver has more than a decade of experience discussing Apple and Apple-adjacent companies and covers news, opinion, reviews, and more here at AppleInsider. I’ve had everything from the original AirPods to AirPods Pro to now the AirPods 4 with wireless charging. Overall, pretty happy with mine, but I still find they don’t fit my ears well and are always falling out. Sound quality, noise cancellation, and battery life are all excellent. The wireless charging not being magnetic is just annoying.  I usually don’t use it but it’s just one of those things that you have to ask yourself “would this have really cost Apple anything to include?”  I suppose it’s a distinction between this and the pro line. I’ve had everything from the original AirPods to AirPods Pro to now the AirPods 4 with wireless charging. Overall, pretty happy with mine, but I still find they don’t fit my ears well and are always falling out. Sound quality, noise cancellation, and battery life are all excellent. The wireless charging not being magnetic is just annoying.  I usually don’t use it but it’s just one of those things that you have to ask yourself “would this have really cost Apple anything to include?”  I suppose it’s a distinction between this and the pro line. I was considering the AirPods 4 with ANC, until my local Wal-Mart had AirPods Pro 2 for just $155 ($95 off list) in Dec. 2024! I was considering the AirPods 4 with ANC, until my local Wal-Mart had AirPods Pro 2 for just $155 ($95 off list) in Dec. 2024! The addition of the silicon tips* and the Pro features (now including hearing testing, protection, and if needed medical-grade hearing aid) mean that I don't think I could be happy with the regular AirPods, even with ANC (which is another great feature on the AirPods Pro). But if the regular AirPods fit well in your ears -- something you can't test until you buy them, of course -- then by all means save some money and get some of the AirPods Pro's best features.*for people like my partner, smaller (or larger) third-party silicone tips are available that will help ensure a snug fit if the included Apple tips for the Pros do not work for you. The addition of the silicon tips* and the Pro features (now including hearing testing, protection, and if needed medical-grade hearing aid) mean that I don't think I could be happy with the regular AirPods, even with ANC (which is another great feature on the AirPods Pro). But if the regular AirPods fit well in your ears -- something you can't test until you buy them, of course -- then by all means save some money and get some of the AirPods Pro's best features.*for people like my partner, smaller (or larger) third-party silicone tips are available that will help ensure a snug fit if the included Apple tips for the Pros do not work for you. I tend to use the AirPods 4 more often than my AirPods Pro 2 for situations that don't require higher level ANC. Pro 2s are definitely better for air travel though. I tend to use the AirPods 4 more often than my AirPods Pro 2 for situations that don't require higher level ANC. Pro 2s are definitely better for air travel though. I can attest to the AirPods 4 durability. I dropped them in the parking lot of our office in Montreal getting into a cab on the way to the airport. When I couldn't find them while I was on the plane I assumed I had left them at home. Got home 4 days later only to find that they were not there. Checked FindMy and their last location was the parking lot of my office. Drove back, found them frozen to the ground. Thawed then out and they work perfectly. Pretty happy with mine! I can attest to the AirPods 4 durability. I dropped them in the parking lot of our office in Montreal getting into a cab on the way to the airport. When I couldn't find them while I was on the plane I assumed I had left them at home. Got home 4 days later only to find that they were not there. Checked FindMy and their last location was the parking lot of my office. Drove back, found them frozen to the ground. Thawed then out and they work perfectly. Pretty happy with mine! UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 8
TITLE: iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3: A quantum leap forward
URL: https://appleinsider.com/inside/iphone-16e/vs/iphone-16e-vs-iphone-se-3-a-quantum-leap-forward
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. iPhone 16e [left], iPhone SE Gen 3 [right] The iPhone 16e brings the iPhone SE kicking and screaming to modern times. Here's what's new about the spiritual successor versus the outgoing budget-friendly model.  Apple has consistently kept the design of the iPhone SE behind the rest of the iPhone range throughout its life. With the introduction of the iPhone 16e as a rebranded replacement, the budget model is now a thoroughly modernized smartphone. It's not just the design that's been given a boost, as its specifications have also been upgraded to match its appearance. Here's how much has changed between the March 2022 release of the third-gen iPhone SE, and the brand-new and renamed iPhone 16e. iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - SpecificationsSpecificationsiPhone 16eiPhone SE (Third Generation)Price (starting)$599Best iPhone 16e prices$429Best iPhone SE 3 pricesDimensions (inches)5.78 x 2.82 x 0.315.45 x 2.65 x 0.29Weight (ounces)5.885.09Side controlsAction ButtonMute switchProcessorA184-core GPUA15 Bionic4-core GPUStorage128GB, 256GB, 512GB64GB, 128GB, 256GBDisplay type6.1-inch Super Retina XDR 4.7-inch Retina HDResolution2,532 x 1,170 at 460ppi1,334 x 750 at 326dpiTrue ToneYesYesBiometricsFace IDTouch ID Connectivity5G (Sub-6GHz only),Gigabit-class LTE,Wi-Fi 6,Bluetooth 5.3,NFCEmergency SOS via Satellite,Roadside Assistance via Satellite,USB-C (USB 2)5G (sub-6GHz),LTE Advanced,Wi-Fi 6Bluetooth 5.0,NFC, Emergency SOS,LightningRear Cameras48MP Fusion12MP MainVideo4K 60fps,4K 60fps HDR with Dolby Vision,1080p 240fps Slo-Mo,Optical image stabilization,4K 60fps,1080p 240fps Slo-Mo,Optical image stabilization,Front Camera12MP TrueDepth,Autofocus7MP FaceTime HD,AutofocusBattery Size (Video playback time)Up to 26 hoursUp to 15 hoursWireless ChargingQi 7.5WQi 7.5WColorsBlack,WhiteMidnight,Starlight,(Product)REDiPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - Physical DimensionsThe previous third-generation model is relatively small when it comes to iPhone sizing. At 5.45 inches long and 2.65 inches wide, it's not the biggest in the range. However, at 0.29 inches, it was even thinner than the flagship models, like the iPhone 16. At 5.09 ounces, it's also very light for an iPhone.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3: The side view of the iPhone 16eThe iPhone 16e, however, is a much bigger animal. At 5.78 by 2.82, it has a longer and wider body than the iPhone SE, but it's a tad thicker at 0.31 inches. This puts the iPhone 16e very close to the same size as Apple's current flagship model, the iPhone 16. With size comes weight, and the iPhone 16e is a bit heavier at 5.88 ounces. Construction-wise, the iPhone SE 3 used Apple's usual motif of a glass sandwich, with an aluminum frame in the middle. However, rather than the flat-sided appearance of the modern iPhone, it borrowed the design language and curved sides of the iPhone 8. The iPhone 16e is more like the iPhone 14 in design, with an aluminum and glass sandwich still in use. Aside from the size and the screen, the new model also adopts the more modern use of flat sides instead of curved ones. For physical interactions, the iPhone SE includes the side button, the volume controls, and the ring/silent switch, a now-defunct component based on the rest of the iPhone collection's use of the Action button. The screen also has the Home button, which is used for Touch ID. The iPhone 16e certainly gets on board with the Action button, while retaining the volume controls and the side button. The Home button is gone on the new model, enabling for an edge-to-edge display to be used. Another big indicator of its age is the iPhone SE's use of Lightning. With Apple shifting over to USB-C across its entire catalog, this made the iPhone SE 3 a considerable outlier by using the connection type. Thanks to the iPhone 16e's use of USB-C, Lightning's gone, but speed continues to be an issue. The USB-C connector operates at USB 2 speeds, so transfers of videos to a Mac will still be painfully glacial. iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - DisplayAnother big indicator that change has occurred is the display. The iPhone SE 3 was the last smartphone in Apple's catalog to cling onto using the Home button on the front. This design choice had consequences, including eating into the available front space that a display could occupy. With the base and top blocked off, that left Apple using a 4.7-inch Retina HD display. That's an LCD IPS screen with a relatively low resolution of 1,334 by 750, and a pixel density of 326 pixels per inch. After eliminating the Home button, the iPhone 16e can now stretch out with a 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR screen. That means it's shifted from LCD to OLED, matching the rest of the iPhone lineup. There's a resolution bump too to 2,532 by 1,170. That gives it a much higher pixel density of 460ppi, rivaling the other flagship models.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3: Goodbye Home button, hello notchIt's not an entirely unfettered screen, though, as Apple has brought back the dreaded notch to the iPhone 16e. This element, which contains the TrueDepth camera array, takes up space at the top of the screen. Given the massive resolution increase, it's probably a justifiable sacrifice in the new model. It could've been improved by the use of the Dynamic Island, but Apple decided not to use it this time around. The display specifications of the third-gen SE are also disappointing when you look at things like brightness, with it only able to kick out 625 nits at most. The 1,400:1 contrast ratio is also bad compared to the rest of the range, but that's chiefly because of its use of LCD instead of OLED. The iPhone 16e goes up to a maximum brightness for typical content usage at 800 nits. At a push, it has a peak brightness for HDR content of 1,200 nits. The OLED usage also gives it a considerably higher contrast ratio, at 2 million to one. Other mainstays of display features, such as True Tone support, Wide color (P3) support, and an oleophobic coating, are present on both smartphones, as usual. iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - CamerasThe iPhone SE has always offered only one camera to consumers. This was more an essential and basic feature that Apple had to add, without going too far and raising the cost of the device. In the third-gen model, this was a 12MP camera sensor, with an f/1.8 aperture, a 5x digital zoom, and the ability to record 4K video at 60fps. You had some niceties, including optical image stabilization, computational photography using Deep Fusion, and a 240fps 1080p Slo-mo video mode, but it wasn't exactly a photographic tour-de-force. The iPhone 16e continues the trend, by providing only one rear camera. This time around, it's 48MP Fusion camera with an f.1.6 aperture. There's still computational photography elements like Deep Fusion and the new Photonic Engine, as well as optical image stabilization, but there's also a new Night mode.  iPhone 16e  vs iPhone SE 3: iPhone 16e [left] still has one camera, just like the iPhone SE 3 [right]More importantly for the camera, the high resolution allows Apple to pull off a trick to create a second virtual Telephoto camera. By selectively cropping the massive sensor resolution down to 12MP, it effectively creates an image with a 2x optical zoom. On the video side, there's not a massive amount new for the iPhone 16e over the third-gen SE. There are upgrades, though, including 4K video at 60fps supporting Dolby Vision, Audio Zoom, wind noise reduction, Audio Mix, and Spatial Audio recording. The front camera wasn't much to shout about on the iPhone SE 3, with it being a 7MP snapper with an f/2.2 aperture and 1080p video recording. It too had Deep Fusion and Portrait Mode with Depth Control and Portrait Lighting. However, it was strictly just a camera, with no depth-sensing capabilities, and not much special about it. With the switch to Face ID and the TrueDepth camera array, the iPHone 16e gains a lot at the front. This includes an upgraded resolution to 12MP, an f/1.9 aperture, and Animoji and Memoji support. The front also manages to use the Photonic Engine, can record 4K 60fps Dolby Vision video, and has a 120fps 1080p Slo-mo mode. If the screen was the most important change between generations, the camera comes in a close second. iPhone 16e  vs iPhone SE 3 - Processing and PerformanceWhile the iPhone SE 3 had decidedly dated design aesthetics, it did however provide a lot of performance. With each iteration, Apple is keen to put a decent chip in due to the multi-year gaps between releases. Inside the iPhone SE 3 was the A15 Bionic chip, a six-core CPU with two performance cores and four efficiency cores. It's the same chip that you'd find inside the iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus.  iPhone 16e  vs iPhone SE 3: The iPhone 16e can use Apple IntelligenceThat CPU was accompanied by a four-core GPU and a 16-core Neural Engine. While it was capable of 15.8 trillion operations per second, that wasn't enough to be able to use Apple Intelligence. For the iPhone 16e, Apple has decided to use the A18, the current-generation chip. However, while it has the same 6-core CPU as the iPhone 16's version, as well as the 16-core Neural Engine, it instead reduces the GPU core count down to four. Obviously, this chip means it will work with Apple Intelligence, Apple's move towards generative AI and other AI-based assistance. You're not going to be able to play around with Image Playground or use the intelligent Writing Tools, nor enjoy ChatGPT working with Siri on the older smartphone. As for performance, we don't exactly know how much power this slightly neutered version of the A18 will provide, but we can still check out the relative ballpark of improvement you can expect.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3: The single-core and multi-core tests for the A15 and the iPhone 16's A18Geekbench's listings for the iPhone SE 3 gives it a single-core score of 2,259. The A18 in the iPhone 16 manages 3,316, a 47% improvement. On the multi-core test, the iPhone SE's 5,442 is dwarfed by the A18's 8,162, a 49% gain. Given the specifications of the version of the chip inside the iPhone 16e, its single-core and multi-core performance should be pretty close to the A18, because Apple hasn't published about any changes affecting those tests. However, other factors such as changes in thermal management or Apple adjusting the clock speed for the model will have some effect on performance. The Metal score of 17,695 on the iPhone SE is soundly beaten by the 56% higher 27,665 of the A18. That's to be expected from three generations of improvements.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3: A15 and A18 Geekbench results, as well as an estimate for the iPhone 16e's A18 chip. Since we know that the A18 in the iPhone 16e has one fewer core than the iPhone 16's version, we could estimate the Metal score could be a fifth lower, around 22,000. This is still a fair bit of a boost, albeit a somewhat smaller 25% difference, but it's still an improvement. Again, this is only a simple estimate based on core counts. If Apple made other changes to the chip, or other alterations to the setup in general, it could end up being a quite different figure. iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - ConnectivityFor wireless connectivity, the third-gen SE model could connect to 5G networks, but only using the sub-6GHz band. There was no mmWave high-speed connectivity offered in the budget-focused model. It did have 4G LTE Advanced as a backup, as well as 3G and 2G network support. It's a similar story for the iPhone 16e, with mmWave absent but sub-6GHz 5G present and usable, as well as Gigabit LTE this time around. More importantly, it's using Apple's C1 modem for the first time, marking another shift in iPhone technology and bringing more of the component designs in-house.  iPhone 16e  vs iPhone SE 3: Lightning's out, USB-C is inWi-Fi on the third-gen iPhone SE was Wi-Fi 6 support with 2x2 MIMO, while Bluetooth was version 5.0. While Wi-Fi is the same on the iPhone 16e, the Bluetooth has been upgraded to 5.3. NFC is still around, enabling Apple Pay transactions to go through. For location services, the iPhone SE Gen 3 could use GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, QZSS, and BeiDou, and it was also equipped with a digital compass and iBeacon support. The iPhone 16e tweaks this slightly, with the addition of NavIC. Physical connectivity was offered by Lightning on the third-gen model, a largely depreciated connection going by the rest of Apple's product catalog. That's now USB-C in the iPhone 16e. iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - Power and BatteryWhen it comes to battery life, the iPhone SE 3 didn't exactly knock things out of the park. It could handle up to 15 hours of locally stored video playback, ten hours if streamed, and up to 50 hours of audio playback from a single charge. A few years later, the iPhone 16e offers consumers a lot more usage time. It's now up to 26 hours for locally stored video, 21 hours of streaming, and up to 90 hours of audio playback. Fast charging was available on the iPhone SE 3, with a 50% charge achievable in 30 minutes using a 20W adapter. The iPhone 16e offers the same thing. For wireless charging, the iPhone SE 3 did support Qi chargers, but not MagSafe. Again, this is unchanged in the iPhone 16e, with the lack of MagSafe somewhat puzzling. iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - Other FeaturesThe iPhone SE 3 has a splash, water, and dust resistance rating of IP67, meaning it can survive to a depth of 1 meter for 30 minutes. The iPhone 16e has IP68, which extends the depth to 6 meters for up to 30 minutes. The biometric security of the iPhone SE 3 was Touch ID, using a fingerprint reader embedded into the Home button on the front of the smartphone. This has been removed and replaced by Face ID in the iPhone 16e. The iPhone SE 3 had dual-SIM support, consisting of a nano SIM card and an eSIM. It could also use two eSIM cards in dual-SIM mode too.Dual-SIM support is also available in the iPhone 16e. However, in the United States, it's only using eSIMs, no physical SIM cards, though nano SIM cards are still usable in other territories. iPhone 16e  vs iPhone SE 3 - Capacity, Color, and PricingThe iPhone SE 3 was available in three color options: Starlight, Midnight, or (Product)RED. It was also sold in three capacities, with 64GB priced at $429, 128GB at $479, and 256GB for $579. The iPhone 16e is sold in two colors: Black or White.  iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3: There are only two iPhone 16e colors available at launchIts capacities are bumped up versus the iPhone SE, starting at 128GB for $599, with 256GB at $699, and 512GB for $899. iPhone 16e vs iPhone SE 3 - Massive differencesWhile it does not share the same name as the iPhone SE line, the iPhone 16e is basically the nearest thing consumers can buy from Apple. It's the new entry-level point to getting an iPhone, without acquiring a previous-generation model. Against the iPhone SE 3, the iPhone 16e presents a considerable amount of progress, in both design and in specification. Over three years, Apple has come up with a design that increases the screen resolution and size, finally dispenses with the Home button, boosts the camera resolution, and increases processing performance. That last one is especially important, since the iPhone 16e now serves as the low-budget entryway into using Apple Intelligence. It's something that almost certainly won't be appearing on the iPhone SE 3 at all. What Apple has come up with is a replacement for the iPhone SE line that offers most of what you would expect from a modern flagship device, but taken down a peg or two to save money. Existing iPhone SE 3 owners will be hard-pressed to see anything wrong in the iPhone 16e itself, but the $170 increase to the starting price could be a concern for those watching their wallet.Where to buy Apple's iPhone 16e and SE 3Wireless carrier AT&T is clearing out remaining iPhone SE 3 inventory ahead of 16e preorders going live, with prices as low as $1.99 per month for the device. You can also browse today's best iPhone deals across the entire range. We'll be bringing you the best iPhone 16e offers once preorders begin. Apple has consistently kept the design of the iPhone SE behind the rest of the iPhone range throughout its life. With the introduction of the iPhone 16e as a rebranded replacement, the budget model is now a thoroughly modernized smartphone. It's not just the design that's been given a boost, as its specifications have also been upgraded to match its appearance. Here's how much has changed between the March 2022 release of the third-gen iPhone SE, and the brand-new and renamed iPhone 16e. The previous third-generation model is relatively small when it comes to iPhone sizing. At 5.45 inches long and 2.65 inches wide, it's not the biggest in the range. However, at 0.29 inches, it was even thinner than the flagship models, like the iPhone 16. At 5.09 ounces, it's also very light for an iPhone. The iPhone 16e, however, is a much bigger animal. At 5.78 by 2.82, it has a longer and wider body than the iPhone SE, but it's a tad thicker at 0.31 inches.  This puts the iPhone 16e very close to the same size as Apple's current flagship model, the iPhone 16. With size comes weight, and the iPhone 16e is a bit heavier at 5.88 ounces. Construction-wise, the iPhone SE 3 used Apple's usual motif of a glass sandwich, with an aluminum frame in the middle. However, rather than the flat-sided appearance of the modern iPhone, it borrowed the design language and curved sides of the iPhone 8. The iPhone 16e is more like the iPhone 14 in design, with an aluminum and glass sandwich still in use. Aside from the size and the screen, the new model also adopts the more modern use of flat sides instead of curved ones. For physical interactions, the iPhone SE includes the side button, the volume controls, and the ring/silent switch, a now-defunct component based on the rest of the iPhone collection's use of the Action button. The screen also has the Home button, which is used for Touch ID. The iPhone 16e certainly gets on board with the Action button, while retaining the volume controls and the side button. The Home button is gone on the new model, enabling for an edge-to-edge display to be used. Another big indicator of its age is the iPhone SE's use of Lightning. With Apple shifting over to USB-C across its entire catalog, this made the iPhone SE 3 a considerable outlier by using the connection type. Thanks to the iPhone 16e's use of USB-C, Lightning's gone, but speed continues to be an issue. The USB-C connector operates at USB 2 speeds, so transfers of videos to a Mac will still be painfully glacial. Another big indicator that change has occurred is the display. The iPhone SE 3 was the last smartphone in Apple's catalog to cling onto using the Home button on the front. This design choice had consequences, including eating into the available front space that a display could occupy. With the base and top blocked off, that left Apple using a 4.7-inch Retina HD display. That's an LCD IPS screen with a relatively low resolution of 1,334 by 750, and a pixel density of 326 pixels per inch. After eliminating the Home button, the iPhone 16e can now stretch out with a 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR screen. That means it's shifted from LCD to OLED, matching the rest of the iPhone lineup. There's a resolution bump too to 2,532 by 1,170. That gives it a much higher pixel density of 460ppi, rivaling the other flagship models. It's not an entirely unfettered screen, though, as Apple has brought back the dreaded notch to the iPhone 16e. This element, which contains the TrueDepth camera array, takes up space at the top of the screen. Given the massive resolution increase, it's probably a justifiable sacrifice in the new model. It could've been improved by the use of the Dynamic Island, but Apple decided not to use it this time around. The display specifications of the third-gen SE are also disappointing when you look at things like brightness, with it only able to kick out 625 nits at most. The 1,400:1 contrast ratio is also bad compared to the rest of the range, but that's chiefly because of its use of LCD instead of OLED. The iPhone 16e goes up to a maximum brightness for typical content usage at 800 nits. At a push, it has a peak brightness for HDR content of 1,200 nits. The OLED usage also gives it a considerably higher contrast ratio, at 2 million to one. Other mainstays of display features, such as True Tone support, Wide color (P3) support, and an oleophobic coating, are present on both smartphones, as usual. The iPhone SE has always offered only one camera to consumers. This was more an essential and basic feature that Apple had to add, without going too far and raising the cost of the device. In the third-gen model, this was a 12MP camera sensor, with an f/1.8 aperture, a 5x digital zoom, and the ability to record 4K video at 60fps. You had some niceties, including optical image stabilization, computational photography using Deep Fusion, and a 240fps 1080p Slo-mo video mode, but it wasn't exactly a photographic tour-de-force. The iPhone 16e continues the trend, by providing only one rear camera. This time around, it's 48MP Fusion camera with an f.1.6 aperture. There's still computational photography elements like Deep Fusion and the new Photonic Engine, as well as optical image stabilization, but there's also a new Night mode. More importantly for the camera, the high resolution allows Apple to pull off a trick to create a second virtual Telephoto camera. By selectively cropping the massive sensor resolution down to 12MP, it effectively creates an image with a 2x optical zoom. On the video side, there's not a massive amount new for the iPhone 16e over the third-gen SE. There are upgrades, though, including 4K video at 60fps supporting Dolby Vision, Audio Zoom, wind noise reduction, Audio Mix, and Spatial Audio recording. The front camera wasn't much to shout about on the iPhone SE 3, with it being a 7MP snapper with an f/2.2 aperture and 1080p video recording. It too had Deep Fusion and Portrait Mode with Depth Control and Portrait Lighting. However, it was strictly just a camera, with no depth-sensing capabilities, and not much special about it. With the switch to Face ID and the TrueDepth camera array, the iPHone 16e gains a lot at the front. This includes an upgraded resolution to 12MP, an f/1.9 aperture, and Animoji and Memoji support. The front also manages to use the Photonic Engine, can record 4K 60fps Dolby Vision video, and has a 120fps 1080p Slo-mo mode. If the screen was the most important change between generations, the camera comes in a close second. While the iPhone SE 3 had decidedly dated design aesthetics, it did however provide a lot of performance. With each iteration, Apple is keen to put a decent chip in due to the multi-year gaps between releases. Inside the iPhone SE 3 was the A15 Bionic chip, a six-core CPU with two performance cores and four efficiency cores. It's the same chip that you'd find inside the iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus. That CPU was accompanied by a four-core GPU and a 16-core Neural Engine. While it was capable of 15.8 trillion operations per second, that wasn't enough to be able to use Apple Intelligence. For the iPhone 16e, Apple has decided to use the A18, the current-generation chip. However, while it has the same 6-core CPU as the iPhone 16's version, as well as the 16-core Neural Engine, it instead reduces the GPU core count down to four. Obviously, this chip means it will work with Apple Intelligence, Apple's move towards generative AI and other AI-based assistance. You're not going to be able to play around with Image Playground or use the intelligent Writing Tools, nor enjoy ChatGPT working with Siri on the older smartphone. As for performance, we don't exactly know how much power this slightly neutered version of the A18 will provide, but we can still check out the relative ballpark of improvement you can expect. Geekbench's listings for the iPhone SE 3 gives it a single-core score of 2,259. The A18 in the iPhone 16 manages 3,316, a 47% improvement. On the multi-core test, the iPhone SE's 5,442 is dwarfed by the A18's 8,162, a 49% gain. Given the specifications of the version of the chip inside the iPhone 16e, its single-core and multi-core performance should be pretty close to the A18, because Apple hasn't published about any changes affecting those tests. However, other factors such as changes in thermal management or Apple adjusting the clock speed for the model will have some effect on performance. The Metal score of 17,695 on the iPhone SE is soundly beaten by the 56% higher 27,665 of the A18. That's to be expected from three generations of improvements. Since we know that the A18 in the iPhone 16e has one fewer core than the iPhone 16's version, we could estimate the Metal score could be a fifth lower, around 22,000. This is still a fair bit of a boost, albeit a somewhat smaller 25% difference, but it's still an improvement. Again, this is only a simple estimate based on core counts. If Apple made other changes to the chip, or other alterations to the setup in general, it could end up being a quite different figure. For wireless connectivity, the third-gen SE model could connect to 5G networks, but only using the sub-6GHz band. There was no mmWave high-speed connectivity offered in the budget-focused model. It did have 4G LTE Advanced as a backup, as well as 3G and 2G network support. It's a similar story for the iPhone 16e, with mmWave absent but sub-6GHz 5G present and usable, as well as Gigabit LTE this time around. More importantly, it's using Apple's C1 modem for the first time, marking another shift in iPhone technology and bringing more of the component designs in-house. Wi-Fi on the third-gen iPhone SE was Wi-Fi 6 support with 2x2 MIMO, while Bluetooth was version 5.0. While Wi-Fi is the same on the iPhone 16e, the Bluetooth has been upgraded to 5.3. NFC is still around, enabling Apple Pay transactions to go through. For location services, the iPhone SE Gen 3 could use GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, QZSS, and BeiDou, and it was also equipped with a digital compass and iBeacon support. The iPhone 16e tweaks this slightly, with the addition of NavIC. Physical connectivity was offered by Lightning on the third-gen model, a largely depreciated connection going by the rest of Apple's product catalog. That's now USB-C in the iPhone 16e. When it comes to battery life, the iPhone SE 3 didn't exactly knock things out of the park. It could handle up to 15 hours of locally stored video playback, ten hours if streamed, and up to 50 hours of audio playback from a single charge. A few years later, the iPhone 16e offers consumers a lot more usage time. It's now up to 26 hours for locally stored video, 21 hours of streaming, and up to 90 hours of audio playback. Fast charging was available on the iPhone SE 3, with a 50% charge achievable in 30 minutes using a 20W adapter. The iPhone 16e offers the same thing. For wireless charging, the iPhone SE 3 did support Qi chargers, but not MagSafe. Again, this is unchanged in the iPhone 16e, with the lack of MagSafe somewhat puzzling. The iPhone SE 3 has a splash, water, and dust resistance rating of IP67, meaning it can survive to a depth of 1 meter for 30 minutes. The iPhone 16e has IP68, which extends the depth to 6 meters for up to 30 minutes. The biometric security of the iPhone SE 3 was Touch ID, using a fingerprint reader embedded into the Home button on the front of the smartphone. This has been removed and replaced by Face ID in the iPhone 16e. The iPhone SE 3 had dual-SIM support, consisting of a nano SIM card and an eSIM. It could also use two eSIM cards in dual-SIM mode too. Dual-SIM support is also available in the iPhone 16e. However, in the United States, it's only using eSIMs, no physical SIM cards, though nano SIM cards are still usable in other territories. The iPhone SE 3 was available in three color options: Starlight, Midnight, or (Product)RED. It was also sold in three capacities, with 64GB priced at $429, 128GB at $479, and 256GB for $579. The iPhone 16e is sold in two colors: Black or White. Its capacities are bumped up versus the iPhone SE, starting at 128GB for $599, with 256GB at $699, and 512GB for $899. While it does not share the same name as the iPhone SE line, the iPhone 16e is basically the nearest thing consumers can buy from Apple. It's the new entry-level point to getting an iPhone, without acquiring a previous-generation model. Against the iPhone SE 3, the iPhone 16e presents a considerable amount of progress, in both design and in specification. Over three years, Apple has come up with a design that increases the screen resolution and size, finally dispenses with the Home button, boosts the camera resolution, and increases processing performance. That last one is especially important, since the iPhone 16e now serves as the low-budget entryway into using Apple Intelligence. It's something that almost certainly won't be appearing on the iPhone SE 3 at all. What Apple has come up with is a replacement for the iPhone SE line that offers most of what you would expect from a modern flagship device, but taken down a peg or two to save money. Existing iPhone SE 3 owners will be hard-pressed to see anything wrong in the iPhone 16e itself, but the $170 increase to the starting price could be a concern for those watching their wallet. Wireless carrier AT&T is clearing out remaining iPhone SE 3 inventory ahead of 16e preorders going live, with prices as low as $1.99 per month for the device. You can also browse today's best iPhone deals across the entire range. We'll be bringing you the best iPhone 16e offers once preorders begin. Based in South Wales, Malcolm Owen has written about tech since 2012, and previously wrote for Electronista and MacNN. In his downtime, he pursues photography, has an interest in magic tricks, and is bothered by his c... Quantum leap forward in price too... Quantum leap forward in price too... Wow, great looking Apple iPhone 16e!  To bad I have the 16 Pro! 😳 Wow, great looking Apple iPhone 16e!  To bad I have the 16 Pro! 😳 I’d rather they kept the IPhone SE. I’d rather they kept the IPhone SE. Apple is getting way too cookie cutter in their product development. Apple is getting way too cookie cutter in their product development. I won’t be rushing to upgrade my iPhone SE anytime soon. The 16e was launched with an identity crisis, it may share the A18 processor but it doesn’t resemble a 16 in the slightest (the butt ugly notch is back and MagSafe charging is missing). Honestly, they would’ve been better off retaining the SE branding rather than besmirching the good name of the 16 (and future models). Apple was on a winner with the iPhone SE - it had a niche of devotees - but now it’s squandered that goodwill. Here’s hoping this particular iPhone goes the way of the G4 Cube, iPod HiFi, cylindrical Mac Pro, and other disastrous products Apple has launched over the years. I won’t be rushing to upgrade my iPhone SE anytime soon. The 16e was launched with an identity crisis, it may share the A18 processor but it doesn’t resemble a 16 in the slightest (the butt ugly notch is back and MagSafe charging is missing). Honestly, they would’ve been better off retaining the SE branding rather than besmirching the good name of the 16 (and future models). Apple was on a winner with the iPhone SE - it had a niche of devotees - but now it’s squandered that goodwill. Here’s hoping this particular iPhone goes the way of the G4 Cube, iPod HiFi, cylindrical Mac Pro, and other disastrous products Apple has launched over the years. UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 9
TITLE: New M4 MacBook Air fixes the line's biggest problem
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/03/05/new-m4-macbook-air-fixes-the-lines-biggest-problem
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. Using two external displays plus the MacBook Air's own screen The new M4 MacBook Air fixes what's been a key problem with the line, and now supports up to two external monitors —  and does so without the limitations of the previous M3 edition. The newly launched MacBook Air brings with it a significant improvement for users of multiple monitors. While the previous M3 model featured support for two monitors, it was only possible to use both when the MacBook Air's lid was closed.So while users gained the wider screen real estate of two external monitors, they lost the use of their MacBook Air internal display. Now the M4 MacBook Air supports two monitors of up to 6K resolution each, plus the built in 13.6-inch or 15.3-inch screen.That 6K resolution is also an improvement. The previous model did support two external monitors, but only one could be 6K.The other could be driven at up to 5K resolution at 60Hz. Either screen could be run at 4K resolution at 144Hz.For comparison, the current M4 MacBook Pro introduced in October 2024, has the same 6K two-monitor option as the MacBook Air, without the lid shut. But the MacBook Pro with M4 Max processor can drive up to three 6K monitors at 60Hz, and a fourth at 4K up to 144Hz. The newly launched MacBook Air brings with it a significant improvement for users of multiple monitors. While the previous M3 model featured support for two monitors, it was only possible to use both when the MacBook Air's lid was closed. So while users gained the wider screen real estate of two external monitors, they lost the use of their MacBook Air internal display. Now the M4 MacBook Air supports two monitors of up to 6K resolution each, plus the built in 13.6-inch or 15.3-inch screen. That 6K resolution is also an improvement. The previous model did support two external monitors, but only one could be 6K. The other could be driven at up to 5K resolution at 60Hz. Either screen could be run at 4K resolution at 144Hz.  For comparison, the current M4 MacBook Pro introduced in October 2024, has the same 6K two-monitor option as the MacBook Air, without the lid shut. But the MacBook Pro with M4 Max processor can drive up to three 6K monitors at 60Hz, and a fourth at 4K up to 144Hz. William Gallagher has 30 years of experience between the BBC and AppleInsider discussing Apple technology. Outside of AppleInsider, he's best known for writing Doctor Who radio dramas for BBC/Big Finish, and is the De... I feel bad for that dude in the picture. His only input device is the trackpad on the MacBook off to the side. Someone get him a mouse or Magic Trackpad. I feel bad for that dude in the picture. His only input device is the trackpad on the MacBook off to the side. Someone get him a mouse or Magic Trackpad. randominternetperson said:
I feel bad for that dude in the picture. His only input device is the trackpad on the MacBook off to the side. Someone get him a mouse or Magic Trackpad.

For multiple monitors a trackball is the way to go!The Kensington Expert Mouse trackball is perfect. The flick of a finger and the cursor flies across multiple monitors. For multiple monitors a trackball is the way to go!The Kensington Expert Mouse trackball is perfect. The flick of a finger and the cursor flies across multiple monitors. jeffharris said:

randominternetperson said:
I feel bad for that dude in the picture. His only input device is the trackpad on the MacBook off to the side. Someone get him a mouse or Magic Trackpad.

For multiple monitors a trackball is the way to go!The Kensington Expert Mouse trackball is perfect. The flick of a finger and the cursor flies across multiple monitors.

Only if you can point me to a good Missile Command implementation. Or Centipede, I suppose, but MC was more my jam. Only if you can point me to a good Missile Command implementation. Or Centipede, I suppose, but MC was more my jam. randominternetperson said:
I feel bad for that dude in the picture. His only input device is the trackpad on the MacBook off to the side. Someone get him a mouse or Magic Trackpad.

the mouse is under the desk, upside-down , on charge  :D /s the mouse is under the desk, upside-down , on charge  :D /s My 2017 15” Intel MacBook Pro could do 2 5k, or 4 external 4K monitors, and the newer models (2019 I think) could do 2 6k or 4 4K monitors. Why are the Apple Silicon models a downgrade in that department? My 2017 15” Intel MacBook Pro could do 2 5k, or 4 external 4K monitors, and the newer models (2019 I think) could do 2 6k or 4 4K monitors. Why are the Apple Silicon models a downgrade in that department? UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. Apple's M4 MacBook Air is more powerful than ever, but the MacBook Pro still dominates the premium laptop market. Apple has released a new firmware version for its iconic MagSafe charger, though there are currently no details as to what the update contains. 
================================================================================

================================================================================
Article Number: 10
TITLE: Apple Watch Series 10 three-month review: Iterative isn't a bad word
URL: https://appleinsider.com/articles/25/01/14/apple-watch-series-10-three-month-review-iterative-isnt-a-bad-word
--------------------------------------------------
CONTENT:
AAPL: 216.15 ( +3.46 ) Copyright © 2025 Quiller Media, Inc. All rights reserved. The Apple Watch Series 10 looks great, if a little familiar. The Apple Watch Series 10 has been on my wrist for three months now and it's clear that it's the best smartwatch Apple ever made. But that doesn't mean there aren't things that a future Series 11 could do better. At this point, so early in the review, you're probably ready to scream "Apple Watch Ultra 2" at your screen. Don't worry, I haven't forgotten it, but the Apple Watch Ultra models are different and I'd argue the Series 10 is the better watch.For most Apple Watch buyers, the Ultras are just too big, too bulky, and too expensive. They come with features they don't need like cellular connectivity and a huge, rugged design that's built to deal with the great outdoors in ways the standard models aren't.People who want an Apple Watch Ultra will buy one. Half of our staff has.But I'd wager that anyone who just wants to buy an Apple Watch will go with the Series 10 or SE, as well they should —  because the former is the best yet even if the changes compared to last year's model are most definitely iterative.Apple Watch Series 10 three-month review: Setting the sceneI always feel it's important to understand where reviewers are coming from when we write these kinds of things, and this review is no different. I've been using the Apple Watch Series 10 for three months now, and I've loved every minute of it.For years now, I've been wearing an Apple Watch Series 5. It's old at this point and was cut off from watchOS updates with the 2024 release of watchOS 11 which means, for me at least, it was time to look for something new.I'd used other Apple Watches, of course, it's part of doing this kind of job. I briefly had an Apple Watch Series 7 before I decided the Series 5 was sufficient and the differences between the two didn't warrant the cost of the upgrade.Then I used an Apple Watch Ultra when that was first released in 2023 and, again, it fell by the wayside. I like big watches, so that wasn't the issue. It just didn't really suit me and the most exercise I get is walking my dog a few times a week, so it was never going to really be in its element.Next came the Apple Watch Series 10. Apple was good enough to send me a loaner and I figured it was time to see what the latest models had to offer. Apple is reading this for the first time after its publishing, and had no input or control over its creation —  as these things should be.So with the backstory laid out, what do I make of the latest Apple Watch to enter the lineup and do I think people should buy one?That's complicated.Apple Watch Series 10 three-month review: A familiar-yet-new approachApple made a big deal about the new Apple Watch's design, but if we're all being honest with ourselves, it looks the same. It isn't quite the same, granted, but if you showed someone a Series 10 and a Series 9 one after the other I think most people would be hard-pressed to tell you the difference.But differences, there absolutely are.Those differences start with the display and case size; the Series 10 now comes in 42mm and 46mm configurations which is a full millimeter bigger than its predecessor. It isn't hugely noticeable, but a millimeter is a millimeter and Apple says this is the biggest display it ever put into its smartwatch. Yes, the display in the 46mm model is bigger than the one used in the Apple Watch Ultra or Ultra 2.The more svelte case also means the new watch is lighter than its predecessor. The aluminum model sheds 10% of its weight while that doubles to 20% when we compare the stainless steel Series 9 to the titanium Series 10.The tech is different, too. The Apple Watch Series 10 features an LPTO3 OLED display whereas the Series 9 makes do with LPTO OLED instead. What that really means is that the watch is now 40% brighter when viewed at an angle while the low-end refresh rate has been lowered to just 1Hz.That might not sound all that impressive, but the move from the 10Hz refresh rate of the Series 9 means this is the first Apple Watch to show seconds even when the display is dimmed. That's cool and makes the Apple Watch Series 10 feel much more like a watch if that makes sense.On the outside, Apple has ditched the premium stainless steel construction and replaced it with a new titanium option. Most people will likely opt for the aluminum version that sticks around from previous Apple Watches, though.If they do, they'll get a new color to choose —  and choose it, they should. The Jet Black aluminum color is gorgeous and its polished finish looks way better than aluminum has any right to look.With that in mind, it's perhaps no surprise that this is the model that I've been using. For completeness, Apple sent me the 46mm Apple Watch Series 10 in Jet Black aluminum with the Ink Sport Loop. I've been wearing it with a few different bands because I'm a sucker for a metal bracelet, though.Other changes? Well, the new model is 10% thinner which is nice, and it does make it seem to stand less proud on my wrist. Is it by a lot? No, not at all.And that pretty much sums up the Series 10 in a lot of ways. The design is different, and it's definitely better. But I'm not sure it's different enough to warrant the way Apple initially touted the design tweaks.

Apple Watch Series 10


       The Apple Watch Series 10 has a wide-angle OLED display that's Apple's biggest and most advanced screen on the wearable to date.
    


Buy at Amazon


Buy at Best Buy


Buy at Adorama


Apple Watch Series 10 three-month review: An Apple Watch, but betterOn the inside, there are more changes that are noteworthy without changing the game too much. The Series 10 gains a new S10 SIP, or system-in-package, making it the fastest Apple Watch I've ever used. It also means there is support for features like on-device Siri processing and the Double tap gesture. The Apple Watch Series 10 even looks good when it's charging.The new chip hasn't impacted battery life though, with Apple touting the same 18 hours. For me, the Apple Watch Series 9 lasts plenty long enough and I charge it once a day, while I'm having a shower —  that's with an hour's workout and sleep tracking plus the usual barrage of notifications with the display set to maximum brightness at all times.Anyone who balks at the idea of charging their Apple Watch daily isn't going to be converted here, and the Ultra 2 is still the battery life king. But the Series 10 has a party piece that helps lessen the battery life issue, at least.With the launch of the Series 10 Apple has been able to upgrade the charging system. Now, a 30-minute charge is enough to take a dead watch to around 80% battery life, which really is a game-changer should you find yourself in need of a top-up before running out the door.There are more improvements when compared to the Series 9, too. The new model has a water temperature sensor and a depth gauge, should you want that kind of thing. It's no diving watch but again, people who want one of those already know they want an Ultra 2 so that's far from an issue as far as I'm concerned.By now you should have noticed something of a recurring theme here. The Apple Watch Series 10 is an Apple Watch Series 9, but better, more refined. And that's a good thing.The pre-launch rumors had hinted (again) at a big departure for this model, something akin to the iPhone X's switch from the familiar iPhone 7 aesthetic. That didn't happen and perhaps it never will.But if you're a fan of the way the Apple Watch looks, and like the one you have, the Series 10 is probably for you. Just don't expect to be blown away when you first take it out of the box.Apple Watch Series 10 three-month review: Where does the Series 11 go next?All of that does beg the question of where Apple could improve things next time out. There are obvious suggestions, and they're ones that come up each and every year. The new, larger display means you can fit more on-screen.In a nutshell, the battery life could be better. The display could be brighter even though it's already best-in-class bright, and maybe the Action button would be nice on the non-Ultra model. Making the thing cheaper wouldn't go amiss, either. And make it even faster, maybe?But in reality, there's only so much that Apple can do here. These things are small, so barring a big advancement in battery technology, Apple seems content with its stated 18 hours of life per charge. And honestly, that's probably enough for nearly everybody.If you need a sleep tracker, use your last Apple Watch that you're charging while you're wearing your Series 10. If your day goes longer than 18 hours, maybe it's time for a new job.The new S10 SIP is fast enough, and it makes a huge difference for me having come from a Series 5. Apps load so much more quickly and support for watchOS 11 is nice, too —  I'm a big fan of Smart Stacks and Live Activities on my wrist!The only real change I'd like from an Apple Watch Series 11 is something new. I want to look at a Series 11 and immediately recognize it without pondering which colors are available on which models first.Apple might be a victim of its own success here and it almost nailed the form factor when the OG watch launched more than a decade ago. We'd see more design changes if it had more work to do so again, iteration isn't necessarily a bad thing here.But Apple is full of smart people and great industrial designers. I'm sure they're capable of giving the Apple Watch Series 11 that new car smell that you have to go with the Ultra 2 to get today.Apple Watch Series 10 three-month review: Where do we go from here?So with all of that said, where does that leave us with the Apple Watch Series 10?In a nutshell, it's the best Apple Watch ever made and if you're shopping for your first Apple smartwatch this is the one that you should buy, assuming you don't need the Ultra or Ultra 2 or need to go the SE route. It really is pretty great, and I can't imagine a world where you'll be left disappointed.But things get a little more complicated if you're upgrading from a previous model. If it's a Series 9, the decision will depend on how much it will cost you to switch —  look out for trade-in offers to lighten the load here.I'd suggest that's the case if you're coming from an Apple Watch Series 8 as well, and possibly even a Series 7. But if you're toiling with a Series 6 or older, you're going to love the Series 10. The same goes for anyone upgrading from an Apple Watch SE for that matter, too.For me, the jump from my Series 5 to the Series 10 is a night-and-day experience, the kind that makes the new model feel like a whole different device. The speed, watchOS 11, and bigger display make that possible and I notice them every day.Now we wait to see what comes next. And even if it's another iterative update, it'll probably still be the best smartwatch on the planet.Apple Watch Series 10 review: ProsThe bigger display means you can fit more information on-screen
Jet Black is just as stunning as it was on the iPhone 7.
The S10 SIP is fast and responsive, making apps whizz along.
Faster wireless charging means that battery life is less of a concern.
The watchOS 11 software brings new features including Live Activities and more.Apple Watch Series 10 review: ConsThe design is perhaps a little too familiar at this point.
The Apple Watch Series 10 perseveres with Wi-Fi 4 support.
Those who do worry about battery life may still going have charger anxiety.Apple Watch Series 10 Rating: 4 out of 5Where to buy the Apple Watch Series 10The Series 10 is on sale now, and you can check out our Apple Watch Series 10 Price Guide to get the best deals at a variety of retailers.You can also find a roundup of the best Apple Watch deals that are curated by our team across the wearable line, including blowout offers on remaining Series 9 inventory and the rest of the lineup. At this point, so early in the review, you're probably ready to scream "Apple Watch Ultra 2" at your screen. Don't worry, I haven't forgotten it, but the Apple Watch Ultra models are different and I'd argue the Series 10 is the better watch. For most Apple Watch buyers, the Ultras are just too big, too bulky, and too expensive. They come with features they don't need like cellular connectivity and a huge, rugged design that's built to deal with the great outdoors in ways the standard models aren't. People who want an Apple Watch Ultra will buy one. Half of our staff has. But I'd wager that anyone who just wants to buy an Apple Watch will go with the Series 10 or SE, as well they should —  because the former is the best yet even if the changes compared to last year's model are most definitely iterative. I always feel it's important to understand where reviewers are coming from when we write these kinds of things, and this review is no different. I've been using the Apple Watch Series 10 for three months now, and I've loved every minute of it. For years now, I've been wearing an Apple Watch Series 5. It's old at this point and was cut off from watchOS updates with the 2024 release of watchOS 11 which means, for me at least, it was time to look for something new. I'd used other Apple Watches, of course, it's part of doing this kind of job. I briefly had an Apple Watch Series 7 before I decided the Series 5 was sufficient and the differences between the two didn't warrant the cost of the upgrade. Then I used an Apple Watch Ultra when that was first released in 2023 and, again, it fell by the wayside. I like big watches, so that wasn't the issue. It just didn't really suit me and the most exercise I get is walking my dog a few times a week, so it was never going to really be in its element. Next came the Apple Watch Series 10. Apple was good enough to send me a loaner and I figured it was time to see what the latest models had to offer. Apple is reading this for the first time after its publishing, and had no input or control over its creation —  as these things should be. So with the backstory laid out, what do I make of the latest Apple Watch to enter the lineup and do I think people should buy one? That's complicated. Apple made a big deal about the new Apple Watch's design, but if we're all being honest with ourselves, it looks the same. It isn't quite the same, granted, but if you showed someone a Series 10 and a Series 9 one after the other I think most people would be hard-pressed to tell you the difference. But differences, there absolutely are. Those differences start with the display and case size; the Series 10 now comes in 42mm and 46mm configurations which is a full millimeter bigger than its predecessor. It isn't hugely noticeable, but a millimeter is a millimeter and Apple says this is the biggest display it ever put into its smartwatch. Yes, the display in the 46mm model is bigger than the one used in the Apple Watch Ultra or Ultra 2. The more svelte case also means the new watch is lighter than its predecessor. The aluminum model sheds 10% of its weight while that doubles to 20% when we compare the stainless steel Series 9 to the titanium Series 10. The tech is different, too. The Apple Watch Series 10 features an LPTO3 OLED display whereas the Series 9 makes do with LPTO OLED instead. What that really means is that the watch is now 40% brighter when viewed at an angle while the low-end refresh rate has been lowered to just 1Hz. That might not sound all that impressive, but the move from the 10Hz refresh rate of the Series 9 means this is the first Apple Watch to show seconds even when the display is dimmed. That's cool and makes the Apple Watch Series 10 feel much more like a watch if that makes sense. On the outside, Apple has ditched the premium stainless steel construction and replaced it with a new titanium option. Most people will likely opt for the aluminum version that sticks around from previous Apple Watches, though. If they do, they'll get a new color to choose —  and choose it, they should. The Jet Black aluminum color is gorgeous and its polished finish looks way better than aluminum has any right to look. With that in mind, it's perhaps no surprise that this is the model that I've been using. For completeness, Apple sent me the 46mm Apple Watch Series 10 in Jet Black aluminum with the Ink Sport Loop. I've been wearing it with a few different bands because I'm a sucker for a metal bracelet, though. Other changes? Well, the new model is 10% thinner which is nice, and it does make it seem to stand less proud on my wrist. Is it by a lot? No, not at all. And that pretty much sums up the Series 10 in a lot of ways. The design is different, and it's definitely better. But I'm not sure it's different enough to warrant the way Apple initially touted the design tweaks. On the inside, there are more changes that are noteworthy without changing the game too much. The Series 10 gains a new S10 SIP, or system-in-package, making it the fastest Apple Watch I've ever used. It also means there is support for features like on-device Siri processing and the Double tap gesture. The new chip hasn't impacted battery life though, with Apple touting the same 18 hours. For me, the Apple Watch Series 9 lasts plenty long enough and I charge it once a day, while I'm having a shower —  that's with an hour's workout and sleep tracking plus the usual barrage of notifications with the display set to maximum brightness at all times. Anyone who balks at the idea of charging their Apple Watch daily isn't going to be converted here, and the Ultra 2 is still the battery life king. But the Series 10 has a party piece that helps lessen the battery life issue, at least. With the launch of the Series 10 Apple has been able to upgrade the charging system. Now, a 30-minute charge is enough to take a dead watch to around 80% battery life, which really is a game-changer should you find yourself in need of a top-up before running out the door. There are more improvements when compared to the Series 9, too. The new model has a water temperature sensor and a depth gauge, should you want that kind of thing. It's no diving watch but again, people who want one of those already know they want an Ultra 2 so that's far from an issue as far as I'm concerned. By now you should have noticed something of a recurring theme here. The Apple Watch Series 10 is an Apple Watch Series 9, but better, more refined. And that's a good thing. The pre-launch rumors had hinted (again) at a big departure for this model, something akin to the iPhone X's switch from the familiar iPhone 7 aesthetic. That didn't happen and perhaps it never will. But if you're a fan of the way the Apple Watch looks, and like the one you have, the Series 10 is probably for you. Just don't expect to be blown away when you first take it out of the box. All of that does beg the question of where Apple could improve things next time out. There are obvious suggestions, and they're ones that come up each and every year. In a nutshell, the battery life could be better. The display could be brighter even though it's already best-in-class bright, and maybe the Action button would be nice on the non-Ultra model. Making the thing cheaper wouldn't go amiss, either. And make it even faster, maybe? But in reality, there's only so much that Apple can do here. These things are small, so barring a big advancement in battery technology, Apple seems content with its stated 18 hours of life per charge. And honestly, that's probably enough for nearly everybody. If you need a sleep tracker, use your last Apple Watch that you're charging while you're wearing your Series 10. If your day goes longer than 18 hours, maybe it's time for a new job. The new S10 SIP is fast enough, and it makes a huge difference for me having come from a Series 5. Apps load so much more quickly and support for watchOS 11 is nice, too —  I'm a big fan of Smart Stacks and Live Activities on my wrist! The only real change I'd like from an Apple Watch Series 11 is something new. I want to look at a Series 11 and immediately recognize it without pondering which colors are available on which models first. Apple might be a victim of its own success here and it almost nailed the form factor when the OG watch launched more than a decade ago. We'd see more design changes if it had more work to do so again, iteration isn't necessarily a bad thing here. But Apple is full of smart people and great industrial designers. I'm sure they're capable of giving the Apple Watch Series 11 that new car smell that you have to go with the Ultra 2 to get today. So with all of that said, where does that leave us with the Apple Watch Series 10? In a nutshell, it's the best Apple Watch ever made and if you're shopping for your first Apple smartwatch this is the one that you should buy, assuming you don't need the Ultra or Ultra 2 or need to go the SE route. It really is pretty great, and I can't imagine a world where you'll be left disappointed. But things get a little more complicated if you're upgrading from a previous model. If it's a Series 9, the decision will depend on how much it will cost you to switch —  look out for trade-in offers to lighten the load here. I'd suggest that's the case if you're coming from an Apple Watch Series 8 as well, and possibly even a Series 7. But if you're toiling with a Series 6 or older, you're going to love the Series 10. The same goes for anyone upgrading from an Apple Watch SE for that matter, too. For me, the jump from my Series 5 to the Series 10 is a night-and-day experience, the kind that makes the new model feel like a whole different device. The speed, watchOS 11, and bigger display make that possible and I notice them every day. Now we wait to see what comes next. And even if it's another iterative update, it'll probably still be the best smartwatch on the planet. The Series 10 is on sale now, and you can check out our Apple Watch Series 10 Price Guide to get the best deals at a variety of retailers. You can also find a roundup of the best Apple Watch deals that are curated by our team across the wearable line, including blowout offers on remaining Series 9 inventory and the rest of the lineup.  Oliver has more than a decade of experience discussing Apple and Apple-adjacent companies and covers news, opinion, reviews, and more here at AppleInsider. Great review. Very fair and even-handed. I've had the Apple Watch 3, 5, 7 and Ultra 1, the latter being my daily driver since it first came out. One of the first things I realized with Apple Watch is that there is a very limited range of things I want to do on a screen that small. Mostly it involves the display of "small" information--a text, a weather forecast, a stock price, my heart rate, today's appts, a short email--and for these tasks, the rounded rectangle shape of the Apple Watch face is a perfect example of form following function. For this reason, I don't expect to see a redesign of Apple Watch, I think we'll see Apple continue to iterate on the same basic shape, and that's not a bad thing when the shape is perfectly suited to its intended tasks. So where do we go from here? I think everyone knows that accurate blood pressure and glucose monitoring are the holy grails that will richly reward whomever gets there first. Note that I said "accurate," which leaves out Samsung's current and inaccurate blood pressure monitor on Galaxy Watch. As far as hardware improvements in Apple Watch, itself, better battery life would be first on my list and welcome by everyone. My Ultra 1 remains plenty fast for any task, plus it still has pulse oximetry working, so I think a more powerful processor only matters to the extent that more power is needed to support some new feature. Otherwise, in terms of overall speed, we're good. And from what I understand, although Apple continues to announce a "new" chip annually for Apple Watch, very little has actually changed since the S6 or S7 series. A lot of people (including me!) railed against Apple for not at least putting the S10 chip into the Ultra last year, but upon further reading, it seems that the S10 is simply an S9 made slimmer to fit the new slimmer Watch 10 case. So putting an S10 in the roomier Ultra case would have meant nothing. Great review. Very fair and even-handed. I've had the Apple Watch 3, 5, 7 and Ultra 1, the latter being my daily driver since it first came out. One of the first things I realized with Apple Watch is that there is a very limited range of things I want to do on a screen that small. Mostly it involves the display of "small" information--a text, a weather forecast, a stock price, my heart rate, today's appts, a short email--and for these tasks, the rounded rectangle shape of the Apple Watch face is a perfect example of form following function. For this reason, I don't expect to see a redesign of Apple Watch, I think we'll see Apple continue to iterate on the same basic shape, and that's not a bad thing when the shape is perfectly suited to its intended tasks. So where do we go from here? I think everyone knows that accurate blood pressure and glucose monitoring are the holy grails that will richly reward whomever gets there first. Note that I said "accurate," which leaves out Samsung's current and inaccurate blood pressure monitor on Galaxy Watch. As far as hardware improvements in Apple Watch, itself, better battery life would be first on my list and welcome by everyone. My Ultra 1 remains plenty fast for any task, plus it still has pulse oximetry working, so I think a more powerful processor only matters to the extent that more power is needed to support some new feature. Otherwise, in terms of overall speed, we're good. And from what I understand, although Apple continues to announce a "new" chip annually for Apple Watch, very little has actually changed since the S6 or S7 series. A lot of people (including me!) railed against Apple for not at least putting the S10 chip into the Ultra last year, but upon further reading, it seems that the S10 is simply an S9 made slimmer to fit the new slimmer Watch 10 case. So putting an S10 in the roomier Ultra case would have meant nothing. Yes, fair review. But series 9 has/had double tap and faster charging, so these are not new features or reasons to upgrade (from a 9).Apple Watch Series 10 review: non-SEO’d Comment Yes, fair review. But series 9 has/had double tap and faster charging, so these are not new features or reasons to upgrade (from a 9).Apple Watch Series 10 review: non-SEO’d Comment The 22 minute charge time from 20 to 80% makes going from series 6 to 10 a whole new experience. The 22 minute charge time from 20 to 80% makes going from series 6 to 10 a whole new experience. I started with a Series 6 and went to the 10 last fall. I love the slightly bigger slightly sharper screen. Faces that put complications in the corners were an issue before. Now I can read them clearly. I have always been confused by the complaints about battery life. Honestly I charge mine once a day. My five year old 6 would be down to 20%, my three month old 10 is at about 50% after a day. Actually over the holidays I forgot to charge it a couple of times. I had no problem getting a full day and a half out of a single charge. It might have to do with my AW not having cellular, but I wear it all the time, day and night, including workouts. Battery has never been an issue for me. As far as double tap, I played with it for a bit and then turned it off. It felt too much like an affectation, I just didn’t like it. But I do like the AW10. IT’s everything my 6 was and more. Likely will keep this until I upgrade to an AW 16 or 17. I started with a Series 6 and went to the 10 last fall. I love the slightly bigger slightly sharper screen. Faces that put complications in the corners were an issue before. Now I can read them clearly. I have always been confused by the complaints about battery life. Honestly I charge mine once a day. My five year old 6 would be down to 20%, my three month old 10 is at about 50% after a day. Actually over the holidays I forgot to charge it a couple of times. I had no problem getting a full day and a half out of a single charge. It might have to do with my AW not having cellular, but I wear it all the time, day and night, including workouts. Battery has never been an issue for me. As far as double tap, I played with it for a bit and then turned it off. It felt too much like an affectation, I just didn’t like it. But I do like the AW10. IT’s everything my 6 was and more. Likely will keep this until I upgrade to an AW 16 or 17. It’s time for 24 hour battery life. I want to charge for 45 minutes when I’m getting ready, then be able to wear it all day and night (for sleep tracking). It’s time for 24 hour battery life. I want to charge for 45 minutes when I’m getting ready, then be able to wear it all day and night (for sleep tracking). UTM is an emulator for virtualizing other operating systems. Here's how to use it to run Apple's Mac OS 9 on a Mac running on Apple Silicon. It's much easier to share Apple Vision Pro with someone, especially if they're going to put it on more than once in a short period. Here's how guest mode works today. The Hollyland Lark M2 was already a small, high-quality wireless microphone you could get for the iPhone, but now its M2S successor is even more tiny. A Federal Civil Court judge ruled that Apple will not be required to enable sideloading in Brazil, meaning that the iPhone maker can continue to distribute apps exclusively via the App Store. Plex has announced that it will no longer offer free remote streaming for personal media and says its subscription options will see a significant price increase effective April 29, 2025. While much has been written throughout the years about Apple's cellular modem and how it would stack up versus Qualcomm, Apple's C1 modem in the iPhone 16e is no slouch when it comes to actual internet speeds. Maybe Apple will never fully walk away from Europe, but the European Commission has just guaranteed that the citizens of its member states will always be the last to get new iPhone features — if they get them at all. A recent survey found Apple's new iPhone 16e isn't impressing existing iPhone users, but it misses the point on the smartphone's intended consumer base. Drivers in Denver can get a free AirTag to hide in their vehicle, in a program the Denver Police Department hopes will reduce auto thefts. Apple's work to diversify its supply chain is continuing, with assembly partners preparing to start manufacturing AirPods in India as soon as April. The world of the smart ring is a relatively new one, especially when compared to smartwatches. 
================================================================================
